-   Index
-   May 2019



CALL — CALL PROCEDURE


  Opcode        Instruction       Op/En   64-bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  ------------- ----------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  E8 _cw_       CALL _rel16_      D       N.S.          Valid             Call near, relative, displacement relative to next instruction.
  E8 _cd_       CALL _rel32_      D       Valid         Valid             Call near, relative, displacement relative to next instruction. 32-bit displacement sign extended to 64-bits in 64-bit mode.
  FF /2         CALL _r/m16_      M       N.E.          Valid             Call near, absolute indirect, address given in _r/m16._
  FF /2         CALL _r/m32_      M       N.E.          Valid             Call near, absolute indirect, address given in _r/m32._
  FF /2         CALL _r/m64_      M       Valid         N.E.              Call near, absolute indirect, address given in _r/m_64.
  9A _cd_       CALL _ptr16:16_   D       Invalid       Valid             Call far, absolute, address given in operand.
  9A _cp_       CALL _ptr16:32_   D       Invalid       Valid             Call far, absolute, address given in operand.
  FF /3         CALL _m16:16_     M       Valid         Valid             Call far, absolute indirect address given in _m16:16._ In 32-bit mode: if selector points to a gate, then RIP = 32-bit zero extended displacement taken from gate; else RIP = zero extended 16-bit offset from far pointer referenced in the instruction.
  FF /3         CALL _m16:32_     M       Valid         Valid             In 64-bit mode: If selector points to a gate, then RIP = 64-bit displacement taken from gate; else RIP = zero extended 32-bit offset from far pointer referenced in the instruction.
  REX.W FF /3   CALL _m16:64_     M       Valid         N.E.              In 64-bit mode: If selector points to a gate, then RIP = 64-bit displacement taken from gate; else RIP = 64-bit offset from far pointer referenced in the instruction.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1       Operand 2   Operand 3   Operand 4
  D       Offset          NA          NA          NA
  M       ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA          NA
  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------


Description ¶

Saves procedure linking information on the stack and branches to the
called procedure specified using the target operand. The target operand
specifies the address of the first instruction in the called procedure.
The operand can be an immediate value, a general-purpose register, or a
memory location.

This instruction can be used to execute four types of calls:

-   NEAR CALL — A call to a procedure in the current code segment (the
    segment currently pointed to by the CS register), sometimes referred
    to as an intra-segment call.
-   FAR CALL — A call to a procedure located in a different segment than
    the current code segment, sometimes referred to as an inter-segment
    call.
-   INTER-PRIVILEGE-LEVEL FAR CALL — A far call to a procedure in a
    segment at a different privilege level than that of the currently
    executing program or procedure.
-   TASK SWITCH — A call to a procedure located in a different task.

The latter two call types (inter-privilege-level call and task switch)
can only be executed in protected mode. See “Calling Procedures Using
Call and RET” in Chapter 6 of the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1_, for additional information on
near, far, and inter-privilege-level calls. See Chapter 7, “Task
Management,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A_, for information on performing task
switches with the CALL instruction.

NEAR CALL. When executing a near call, the processor pushes the value of
the EIP register (which contains the offset of the instruction following
the CALL instruction) on the stack (for use later as a
return-instruction pointer). The processor then branches to the address
in the current code segment specified by the target operand. The target
operand specifies either an absolute offset in the code segment (an
offset from the base of the code segment) or a relative offset (a signed
displacement relative to the current value of the instruction pointer in
the EIP register; this value points to the instruction following the
CALL instruction). The CS register is not changed on near calls.

For a near call absolute, an absolute offset is specified indirectly in
a general-purpose register or a memory location (_r/m16_, _r/m32, or
r/m64_). The operand-size attribute determines the size of the target
operand (16, 32 or 64 bits). When in 64-bit mode, the operand size for
near call (and all near branches) is forced to 64-bits. Absolute offsets
are loaded directly into the EIP(RIP) register. If the operand size
attribute is 16, the upper two bytes of the EIP register are cleared,
resulting in a maximum instruction pointer size of 16 bits. When
accessing an absolute offset indirectly using the stack pointer [ESP] as
the base register, the base value used is the value of the ESP before
the instruction executes.

A relative offset (_rel16_ or _rel32_) is generally specified as a label
in assembly code. But at the machine code level, it is encoded as a
signed, 16- or 32-bit immediate value. This value is added to the value
in the EIP(RIP) register. In 64-bit mode the relative offset is always a
32-bit immediate value which is sign extended to 64-bits before it is
added to the value in the RIP register for the target calculation. As
with absolute offsets, the operand-size attribute determines the size of
the target operand (16, 32, or 64 bits). In 64-bit mode the target
operand will always be 64-bits because the operand size is forced to
64-bits for near branches.

FAR CALLS IN REAL-ADDRESS OR VIRTUAL-8086 MODE. When executing a far
call in real- address or virtual-8086 mode, the processor pushes the
current value of both the CS and EIP registers on the stack for use as a
return-instruction pointer. The processor then performs a “far branch”
to the code segment and offset specified with the target operand for the
called procedure. The target operand specifies an absolute far address
either directly with a pointer (_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly
with a memory location (_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). With the pointer method,
the segment and offset of the called procedure is encoded in the
instruction using a 4-byte (16-bit operand size) or 6-byte (32-bit
operand size) far address immediate. With the indirect method, the
target operand specifies a memory location that contains a 4-byte
(16-bit operand size) or 6-byte (32-bit operand size) far address. The
operand-size attribute determines the size of the offset (16 or 32 bits)
in the far address. The far address is loaded directly into the CS and
EIP registers. If the operand-size attribute is 16, the upper two bytes
of the EIP register are cleared.

FAR CALLS IN PROTECTED MODE. When the processor is operating in
protected mode, the CALL instruction can be used to perform the
following types of far calls:

-   Far call to the same privilege level
-   Far call to a different privilege level (inter-privilege level call)
-   Task switch (far call to another task)

In protected mode, the processor always uses the segment selector part
of the far address to access the corresponding descriptor in the GDT or
LDT. The descriptor type (code segment, call gate, task gate, or TSS)
and access rights determine the type of call operation to be performed.

If the selected descriptor is for a code segment, a far call to a code
segment at the same privilege level is performed. (If the selected code
segment is at a different privilege level and the code segment is
non-conforming, a general-protection exception is generated.) A far call
to the same privilege level in protected mode is very similar to one
carried out in real-address or virtual-8086 mode. The target operand
specifies an absolute far address either directly with a pointer
(_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly with a memory location
(_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). The operand- size attribute determines the size
of the offset (16 or 32 bits) in the far address. The new code segment
selector and its descriptor are loaded into CS register; the offset from
the instruction is loaded into the EIP register.

A call gate (described in the next paragraph) can also be used to
perform a far call to a code segment at the same privilege level. Using
this mechanism provides an extra level of indirection and is the
preferred method of making calls between 16-bit and 32-bit code
segments.

When executing an inter-privilege-level far call, the code segment for
the procedure being called must be accessed through a call gate. The
segment selector specified by the target operand identifies the call
gate. The target operand can specify the call gate segment selector
either directly with a pointer (_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly
with a memory location (_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). The processor obtains the
segment selector for the new code segment and the new instruction
pointer (offset) from the call gate descriptor. (The offset from the
target operand is ignored when a call gate is used.)

On inter-privilege-level calls, the processor switches to the stack for
the privilege level of the called procedure. The segment selector for
the new stack segment is specified in the TSS for the currently running
task. The branch to the new code segment occurs after the stack switch.
(Note that when using a call gate to perform a far call to a segment at
the same privilege level, no stack switch occurs.) On the new stack, the
processor pushes the segment selector and stack pointer for the calling
procedure’s stack, an optional set of parameters from the calling
procedures stack, and the segment selector and instruction pointer for
the calling procedure’s code segment. (A value in the call gate
descriptor determines how many parameters to copy to the new stack.)
Finally, the processor branches to the address of the procedure being
called within the new code segment.

Executing a task switch with the CALL instruction is similar to
executing a call through a call gate. The target operand specifies the
segment selector of the task gate for the new task activated by the
switch (the offset in the target operand is ignored). The task gate in
turn points to the TSS for the new task, which contains the segment
selectors for the task’s code and stack segments. Note that the TSS also
contains the EIP value for the next instruction that was to be executed
before the calling task was suspended. This instruction pointer value is
loaded into the EIP register to re-start the calling task.

The CALL instruction can also specify the segment selector of the TSS
directly, which eliminates the indirection of the task gate. See Chapter
7, “Task Management,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A_, for information on the mechanics of a
task switch.

When you execute at task switch with a CALL instruction, the nested task
flag (NT) is set in the EFLAGS register and the new TSS’s previous task
link field is loaded with the old task’s TSS selector. Code is expected
to suspend this nested task by executing an IRET instruction which,
because the NT flag is set, automatically uses the previous task link to
return to the calling task. (See “Task Linking” in Chapter 7 of the
_Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume
3A_, for information on nested tasks.) Switching tasks with the CALL
instruction differs in this regard from JMP instruction. JMP does not
set the NT flag and therefore does not expect an IRET instruction to
suspend the task.

MIXING 16-BIT AND 32-BIT CALLS. When making far calls between 16-bit and
32-bit code segments, use a call gate. If the far call is from a 32-bit
code segment to a 16-bit code segment, the call should be made from the
first 64 KBytes of the 32-bit code segment. This is because the
operand-size attribute of the instruction is set to 16, so only a 16-bit
return address offset can be saved. Also, the call should be made using
a 16-bit call gate so that 16-bit values can be pushed on the stack. See
Chapter 21, “Mixing 16-Bit and 32-Bit Code,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3B_, for more
information.

FAR CALLS IN COMPATIBILITY MODE. When the processor is operating in
compatibility mode, the CALL instruction can be used to perform the
following types of far calls:

-   Far call to the same privilege level, remaining in compatibility
    mode
-   Far call to the same privilege level, transitioning to 64-bit mode
-   Far call to a different privilege level (inter-privilege level
    call), transitioning to 64-bit mode

Note that a CALL instruction can not be used to cause a task switch in
compatibility mode since task switches are not supported in IA-32e mode.

In compatibility mode, the processor always uses the segment selector
part of the far address to access the corresponding descriptor in the
GDT or LDT. The descriptor type (code segment, call gate) and access
rights determine the type of call operation to be performed.

If the selected descriptor is for a code segment, a far call to a code
segment at the same privilege level is performed. (If the selected code
segment is at a different privilege level and the code segment is
non-conforming, a general-protection exception is generated.) A far call
to the same privilege level in compatibility mode is very similar to one
carried out in protected mode. The target operand specifies an absolute
far address either directly with a pointer (_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or
indirectly with a memory location (_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). The
operand-size attribute determines the size of the offset (16 or 32 bits)
in the far address. The new code segment selector and its descriptor are
loaded into CS register and the offset from the instruction is loaded
into the EIP register. The difference is that 64-bit mode may be
entered. This specified by the L bit in the new code segment descriptor.

Note that a 64-bit call gate (described in the next paragraph) can also
be used to perform a far call to a code segment at the same privilege
level. However, using this mechanism requires that the target code
segment descriptor have the L bit set, causing an entry to 64-bit mode.

When executing an inter-privilege-level far call, the code segment for
the procedure being called must be accessed through a 64-bit call gate.
The segment selector specified by the target operand identifies the call
gate. The target

operand can specify the call gate segment selector either directly with
a pointer (_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly with a memory
location (_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). The processor obtains the segment
selector for the new code segment and the new instruction pointer
(offset) from the 16-byte call gate descriptor. (The offset from the
target operand is ignored when a call gate is used.)

On inter-privilege-level calls, the processor switches to the stack for
the privilege level of the called procedure. The segment selector for
the new stack segment is set to NULL. The new stack pointer is specified
in the TSS for the currently running task. The branch to the new code
segment occurs after the stack switch. (Note that when using a call gate
to perform a far call to a segment at the same privilege level, an
implicit stack switch occurs as a result of entering 64-bit mode. The SS
selector is unchanged, but stack segment accesses use a segment base of
0x0, the limit is ignored, and the default stack size is 64-bits. The
full value of RSP is used for the offset, of which the upper 32-bits are
undefined.) On the new stack, the processor pushes the segment selector
and stack pointer for the calling procedure’s stack and the segment
selector and instruction pointer for the calling procedure’s code
segment. (Parameter copy is not supported in IA-32e mode.) Finally, the
processor branches to the address of the procedure being called within
the new code segment.

NEAR/(FAR) CALLS IN 64-BIT MODE. When the processor is operating in
64-bit mode, the CALL instruction can be used to perform the following
types of far calls:

-   Far call to the same privilege level, transitioning to compatibility
    mode
-   Far call to the same privilege level, remaining in 64-bit mode
-   Far call to a different privilege level (inter-privilege level
    call), remaining in 64-bit mode

Note that in this mode the CALL instruction can not be used to cause a
task switch in 64-bit mode since task switches are not supported in
IA-32e mode.

In 64-bit mode, the processor always uses the segment selector part of
the far address to access the corresponding descriptor in the GDT or
LDT. The descriptor type (code segment, call gate) and access rights
determine the type of call operation to be performed.

If the selected descriptor is for a code segment, a far call to a code
segment at the same privilege level is performed. (If the selected code
segment is at a different privilege level and the code segment is
non-conforming, a general-protection exception is generated.) A far call
to the same privilege level in 64-bit mode is very similar to one
carried out in compatibility mode. The target operand specifies an
absolute far address indirectly with a memory location (_m16:16, m16:32_
or _m16:64_). The form of CALL with a direct specification of absolute
far address is not defined in 64-bit mode. The operand-size attribute
determines the size of the offset (16, 32, or 64 bits) in the far
address. The new code segment selector and its descriptor are loaded
into the CS register; the offset from the instruction is loaded into the
EIP register. The new code segment may specify entry either into
compatibility or 64-bit mode, based on the L bit value.

A 64-bit call gate (described in the next paragraph) can also be used to
perform a far call to a code segment at the same privilege level.
However, using this mechanism requires that the target code segment
descriptor have the L bit set.

When executing an inter-privilege-level far call, the code segment for
the procedure being called must be accessed through a 64-bit call gate.
The segment selector specified by the target operand identifies the call
gate. The target operand can only specify the call gate segment selector
indirectly with a memory location (_m16:16, m16:32_ or _m16:64_). The
processor obtains the segment selector for the new code segment and the
new instruction pointer (offset) from the 16-byte call gate descriptor.
(The offset from the target operand is ignored when a call gate is
used.)

On inter-privilege-level calls, the processor switches to the stack for
the privilege level of the called procedure. The segment selector for
the new stack segment is set to NULL. The new stack pointer is specified
in the TSS for the currently running task. The branch to the new code
segment occurs after the stack switch.

Note that when using a call gate to perform a far call to a segment at
the same privilege level, an implicit stack switch occurs as a result of
entering 64-bit mode. The SS selector is unchanged, but stack segment
accesses use a segment base of 0x0, the limit is ignored, and the
default stack size is 64-bits. (The full value of RSP is used for the
offset.) On the new stack, the processor pushes the segment selector and
stack pointer for the calling procedure’s stack and the segment selector
and instruction pointer for the calling procedure’s code segment.
(Parameter copy is not supported in IA-32e mode.) Finally, the processor
branches to the address of the procedure being called within the new
code segment.

INSTRUCTION ORDERING. Instructions following a far call may be fetched
from memory before earlier instructions complete execution, but they
will not execute (even speculatively) until all instructions prior to
the far call have completed execution (the later instructions may
execute before data stored by the earlier instructions have become
globally visible).

Certain situations may lead to the next sequential instruction after a
near indirect CALL being speculatively executed. If software needs to
prevent this (e.g., in order to prevent a speculative execution side
channel), then an INT3 or LFENCE instruction opcode can be placed after
the near indirect CALL in order to block speculative execution.


Operation ¶

    IF near call
        THEN IF near relative call
            THEN
                IF OperandSize = 64
                    THEN
                        tempDEST ← SignExtend(DEST); (* DEST is rel32 *)
                        tempRIP ← RIP + tempDEST;
                        IF stack not large enough for a 8-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(RIP);
                        RIP ← tempRIP;
                FI;
                IF OperandSize = 32
                    THEN
                        tempEIP ← EIP + DEST; (* DEST is rel32 *)
                        IF tempEIP is not within code segment limit THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        IF stack not large enough for a 4-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(EIP);
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
                IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN
                        tempEIP ← (EIP + DEST) AND 0000FFFFH; (* DEST is rel16 *)
                        IF tempEIP is not within code segment limit THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        IF stack not large enough for a 2-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(IP);
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
            ELSE (* Near absolute call *)
                IF OperandSize = 64
                    THEN
                        tempRIP ← DEST; (* DEST is r/m64 *)
                        IF stack not large enough for a 8-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(RIP);
                        RIP ← tempRIP;
                FI;
                IF OperandSize = 32
                    THEN
                        tempEIP ← DEST; (* DEST is r/m32 *)
                        IF tempEIP is not within code segment limit THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        IF stack not large enough for a 4-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(EIP);
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
                IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN
                        tempEIP ← DEST AND 0000FFFFH; (* DEST is r/m16 *)
                        IF tempEIP is not within code segment limit THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        IF stack not large enough for a 2-byte return address
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        Push(IP);
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
        FI;rel/abs
    FI; near
    IF far call and (PE = 0 or (PE = 1 and VM = 1)) (* Real-address or virtual-8086 mode *)
        THEN
            IF OperandSize = 32
                THEN
                    IF stack not large enough for a 6-byte return address
                        THEN #SS(0); FI;
                    IF DEST[31:16] is not zero THEN #GP(0); FI;
                    Push(CS); (* Padded with 16 high-order bits *)
                    Push(EIP);
                    CS ← DEST[47:32]; (* DEST is ptr16:32 or [m16:32] *)
                    EIP ← DEST[31:0]; (* DEST is ptr16:32 or [m16:32] *)
                ELSE (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                    IF stack not large enough for a 4-byte return address
                        THEN #SS(0); FI;
                    Push(CS);
                    Push(IP);
                    CS ← DEST[31:16]; (* DEST is ptr16:16 or [m16:16] *)
                    EIP ← DEST[15:0]; (* DEST is ptr16:16 or [m16:16]; clear upper 16 bits *)
            FI;
    FI;
    IF far call and (PE = 1 and VM = 0) (* Protected mode or IA-32e Mode, not virtual-8086 mode*)
        THEN
            IF segment selector in target operand NULL
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
            IF segment selector index not within descriptor table limits
                THEN #GP(new code segment selector); FI;
            Read type and access rights of selected segment descriptor;
            IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 0
                THEN
                    IF segment type is not a conforming or nonconforming code segment, call
                    gate, task gate, or TSS
                        THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
                ELSE
                    IF segment type is not a conforming or nonconforming code segment or
                    64-bit call gate,
                        THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
            FI;
            Depending on type and access rights:
                GO TO CONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT;
                GO TO NONCONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT;
                GO TO CALL-GATE;
                GO TO TASK-GATE;
                GO TO TASK-STATE-SEGMENT;
    FI;
    CONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT:
        IF L bit = 1 and D bit = 1 and IA32_EFER.LMA = 1
            THEN GP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF DPL > CPL
            THEN #GP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF segment not present
            THEN #NP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF stack not large enough for return address
            THEN #SS(0); FI;
        tempEIP ← DEST(Offset);
        IF target mode = Compatibility mode
            THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 00000000_FFFFFFFFH; FI;
        IF OperandSize = 16
            THEN
                tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH; FI; (* Clear upper 16 bits *)
        IF (EFER.LMA = 0 or target mode = Compatibility mode) and (tempEIP outside new code
        segment limit)
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF tempEIP is non-canonical
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                Push(CS); (* Padded with 16 high-order bits *)
                Push(EIP);
                CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                EIP ← tempEIP;
            ELSE
                IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN
                        Push(CS);
                        Push(IP);
                        CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                    ELSE (* OperandSize = 64 *)
                        Push(CS); (* Padded with 48 high-order bits *)
                        Push(RIP);
                        CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                        RIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
        FI;
    END;
    NONCONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT:
        IF L-Bit = 1 and D-BIT = 1 and IA32_EFER.LMA = 1
            THEN GP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF (RPL > CPL) or (DPL ≠ CPL)
            THEN #GP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF segment not present
            THEN #NP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF stack not large enough for return address
            THEN #SS(0); FI;
        tempEIP ← DEST(Offset);
        IF target mode = Compatibility mode
            THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 00000000_FFFFFFFFH; FI;
        IF OperandSize = 16
            THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH; FI; (* Clear upper 16 bits *)
        IF (EFER.LMA = 0 or target mode = Compatibility mode) and (tempEIP outside new code
        segment limit)
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF tempEIP is non-canonical
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF OperandSize = 32
            THEN
                Push(CS); (* Padded with 16 high-order bits *)
                Push(EIP);
                CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                EIP ← tempEIP;
            ELSE
                IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN
                        Push(CS);
                        Push(IP);
                        CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                    ELSE (* OperandSize = 64 *)
                        Push(CS); (* Padded with 48 high-order bits *)
                        Push(RIP);
                        CS ← DEST(CodeSegmentSelector);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
                        RIP ← tempEIP;
                FI;
        FI;
    END;
    CALL-GATE:
        IF call gate (DPL < CPL) or (RPL > DPL)
            THEN #GP(call-gate selector); FI;
        IF call gate not present
            THEN #NP(call-gate selector); FI;
        IF call-gate code-segment selector is NULL
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF call-gate code-segment selector index is outside descriptor table limits
            THEN #GP(call-gate code-segment selector); FI;
        Read call-gate code-segment descriptor;
        IF call-gate code-segment descriptor does not indicate a code segment
        or call-gate code-segment descriptor DPL > CPL
            THEN #GP(call-gate code-segment selector); FI;
        IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 1 AND (call-gate code-segment descriptor is
        not a 64-bit code segment or call-gate code-segment descriptor has both L-bit and D-bit set)
            THEN #GP(call-gate code-segment selector); FI;
        IF call-gate code segment not present
            THEN #NP(call-gate code-segment selector); FI;
        IF call-gate code segment is non-conforming and DPL < CPL
            THEN go to MORE-PRIVILEGE;
            ELSE go to SAME-PRIVILEGE;
        FI;
    END;
    MORE-PRIVILEGE:
        IF current TSS is 32-bit
            THEN
                TSSstackAddress ← (new code-segment DPL ∗ 8) + 4;
                IF (TSSstackAddress + 5) > current TSS limit
                    THEN #TS(current TSS selector); FI;
                NewSS ← 2 bytes loaded from (TSS base + TSSstackAddress + 4);
                NewESP ← 4 bytes loaded from (TSS base + TSSstackAddress);
            ELSE
                IF current TSS is 16-bit
                    THEN
                        TSSstackAddress ← (new code-segment DPL ∗ 4) + 2
                        IF (TSSstackAddress + 3) > current TSS limit
                            THEN #TS(current TSS selector); FI;
                        NewSS ← 2 bytes loaded from (TSS base + TSSstackAddress + 2);
                        NewESP ← 2 bytes loaded from (TSS base + TSSstackAddress);
                    ELSE (* current TSS is 64-bit *)
                        TSSstackAddress ← (new code-segment DPL ∗ 8) + 4;
                        IF (TSSstackAddress + 7) > current TSS limit
                            THEN #TS(current TSS selector); FI;
                        NewSS ← new code-segment DPL; (* NULL selector with RPL = new CPL *)
                        NewRSP ← 8 bytes loaded from (current TSS base + TSSstackAddress);
                FI;
        FI;
        IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 and NewSS is NULL
            THEN #TS(NewSS); FI;
        Read new stack-segment descriptor;
        IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 and (NewSS RPL ≠ new code-segment DPL
        or new stack-segment DPL ≠ new code-segment DPL or new stack segment is not a
        writable data segment)
            THEN #TS(NewSS); FI
        IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 and new stack segment not present
            THEN #SS(NewSS); FI;
        IF CallGateSize = 32
            THEN
                IF new stack does not have room for parameters plus 16 bytes
                    THEN #SS(NewSS); FI;
                IF CallGate(InstructionPointer) not within new code-segment limit
                    THEN #GP(0); FI;
                SS ← newSS; (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                ESP ← newESP;
                CS:EIP ← CallGate(CS:InstructionPointer);
                (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                Push(oldSS:oldESP); (* From calling procedure *)
                temp ← parameter count from call gate, masked to 5 bits;
                Push(parameters from calling procedure’s stack, temp)
                Push(oldCS:oldEIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
            ELSE
                IF CallGateSize = 16
                    THEN
                        IF new stack does not have room for parameters plus 8 bytes
                            THEN #SS(NewSS); FI;
                        IF (CallGate(InstructionPointer) AND FFFFH) not in new code-segment limit
                            THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        SS ← newSS; (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        ESP ← newESP;
                        CS:IP ← CallGate(CS:InstructionPointer);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        Push(oldSS:oldESP); (* From calling procedure *)
                        temp ← parameter count from call gate, masked to 5 bits;
                        Push(parameters from calling procedure’s stack, temp)
                        Push(oldCS:oldEIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
                    ELSE (* CallGateSize = 64 *)
                        IF pushing 32 bytes on the stack would use a non-canonical address
                            THEN #SS(NewSS); FI;
                        IF (CallGate(InstructionPointer) is non-canonical)
                            THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        SS ← NewSS; (* NewSS is NULL)
                        RSP ← NewESP;
                        CS:IP ← CallGate(CS:InstructionPointer);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        Push(oldSS:oldESP); (* From calling procedure *)
                        Push(oldCS:oldEIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
                FI;
        FI;
        CPL ← CodeSegment(DPL)
        CS(RPL) ← CPL
    END;
    SAME-PRIVILEGE:
        IF CallGateSize = 32
            THEN
                IF stack does not have room for 8 bytes
                    THEN #SS(0); FI;
                IF CallGate(InstructionPointer) not within code segment limit
                    THEN #GP(0); FI;
                CS:EIP ← CallGate(CS:EIP) (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                Push(oldCS:oldEIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
            ELSE
                If CallGateSize = 16
                    THEN
                        IF stack does not have room for 4 bytes
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        IF CallGate(InstructionPointer) not within code segment limit
                            THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        CS:IP ← CallGate(CS:instruction pointer);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        Push(oldCS:oldIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
                    ELSE (* CallGateSize = 64)
                        IF pushing 16 bytes on the stack touches non-canonical addresses
                            THEN #SS(0); FI;
                        IF RIP non-canonical
                            THEN #GP(0); FI;
                        CS:IP ← CallGate(CS:instruction pointer);
                        (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
                        Push(oldCS:oldIP); (* Return address to calling procedure *)
                FI;
        FI;
        CS(RPL) ← CPL
    END;
    TASK-GATE:
        IF task gate DPL < CPL or RPL
            THEN #GP(task gate selector); FI;
        IF task gate not present
            THEN #NP(task gate selector); FI;
        Read the TSS segment selector in the task-gate descriptor;
        IF TSS segment selector local/global bit is set to local
        or index not within GDT limits
            THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
        Access TSS descriptor in GDT;
        IF descriptor is not a TSS segment
            THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
        IF TSS descriptor specifies that the TSS is busy
            THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
        IF TSS not present
            THEN #NP(TSS selector); FI;
        SWITCH-TASKS (with nesting) to TSS;
        IF EIP not within code segment limit
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
    END;
    TASK-STATE-SEGMENT:
        IF TSS DPL < CPL or RPL
        or TSS descriptor indicates TSS not available
            THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
        IF TSS is not present
            THEN #NP(TSS selector); FI;
        SWITCH-TASKS (with nesting) to TSS;
        IF EIP not within code segment limit
            THEN #GP(0); FI;
    END;


Flags Affected ¶

All flags are affected if a task switch occurs; no flags are affected if
a task switch does not occur.


Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the target offset in destination operand is beyond the new code
segment limit.

If the segment selector in the destination operand is NULL.

If the code segment selector in the gate is NULL.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it
contains a NULL segment selector.

#GP(selector)

If a code segment or gate or TSS selector index is outside descriptor
table limits.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is not for a conforming-code segment,
nonconforming-code segment, call gate, task gate, or task state segment.

If the DPL for a nonconforming-code segment is not equal to the CPL or
the RPL for the segment’s segment selector is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL for a conforming-code segment is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL from a call-gate, task-gate, or TSS segment descriptor is
less than the CPL or than the RPL of the call-gate, task-gate, or TSS’s
segment selector.

If the segment descriptor for a segment selector from a call gate does
not indicate it is a code segment.

If the segment selector from a call gate is beyond the descriptor table
limits.

If the DPL for a code-segment obtained from a call gate is greater than
the CPL.

If the segment selector for a TSS has its local/global bit set for
local.

If a TSS segment descriptor specifies that the TSS is busy or not
available.

#SS(0)

If pushing the return address, parameters, or stack segment pointer onto
the stack exceeds the bounds of the stack segment, when no stack switch
occurs.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#SS(selector)

If pushing the return address, parameters, or stack segment pointer onto
the stack exceeds the bounds of the stack segment, when a stack switch
occurs.

If the SS register is being loaded as part of a stack switch and the
segment pointed to is marked not present.

If stack segment does not have room for the return address, parameters,
or stack segment pointer, when stack switch occurs.

#NP(selector)

If a code segment, data segment, call gate, task gate, or TSS is not
present.

#TS(selector)

If the new stack segment selector and ESP are beyond the end of the TSS.

If the new stack segment selector is NULL.

If the RPL of the new stack segment selector in the TSS is not equal to
the DPL of the code segment being accessed.

If DPL of the stack segment descriptor for the new stack segment is not
equal to the DPL of the code segment descriptor.

If the new stack segment is not a writable data segment.

If segment-selector index for stack segment is outside descriptor table
limits.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the target offset is beyond the code segment limit.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the target offset is beyond the code segment limit.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Compatibility Mode Exceptions ¶

Same exceptions as in protected mode.

  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP(selector)   If a memory address accessed by the selector is in non-canonical space.
  #GP(0)          If the target offset in the destination operand is non-canonical.
  --------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------


64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If a memory address is non-canonical.

If target offset in destination operand is non-canonical.

If the segment selector in the destination operand is NULL.

If the code segment selector in the 64-bit gate is NULL.

#GP(selector)

If code segment or 64-bit call gate is outside descriptor table limits.

If code segment or 64-bit call gate overlaps non-canonical space.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is not for a conforming-code segment,
nonconforming-code segment, or 64-bit call gate.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is a code segment and has both the D-bit and the L-
bit set.

If the DPL for a nonconforming-code segment is not equal to the CPL, or
the RPL for the segment’s segment selector is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL for a conforming-code segment is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL from a 64-bit call-gate is less than the CPL or than the RPL
of the 64-bit call-gate.

If the upper type field of a 64-bit call gate is not 0x0.

If the segment selector from a 64-bit call gate is beyond the descriptor
table limits.

If the DPL for a code-segment obtained from a 64-bit call gate is
greater than the CPL.

If the code segment descriptor pointed to by the selector in the 64-bit
gate doesn't have the L-bit set and the D-bit clear.

If the segment descriptor for a segment selector from the 64-bit call
gate does not indicate it is a code segment.

#SS(0)

If pushing the return offset or CS selector onto the stack exceeds the
bounds of the stack segment when no stack switch occurs.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

If the stack address is in a non-canonical form.

#SS(selector)

If pushing the old values of SS selector, stack pointer, EFLAGS, CS
selector, offset, or error code onto the stack violates the canonical
boundary when a stack switch occurs.

#NP(selector)

If a code segment or 64-bit call gate is not present.

#TS(selector)

If the load of the new RSP exceeds the limit of the TSS.

#UD

(64-bit mode only) If a far call is direct to an absolute address in
memory.

If the LOCK prefix is used.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
