-   Index
-   December 2017



CVTTPS2PI — CONVERT WITH TRUNCATION PACKED SINGLE-PRECISION FP VALUES TO PACKED DWORD INTEGERS


  Opcode/Instruction                      Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  --------------------------------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NP 0F 2C /r CVTTPS2PI _mm_, _xmm/m64_   RM      Valid         Valid             Convert two single-precision floating-point values from _xmm_/_m64_ to two signed doubleword signed integers in _mm_ using truncation.


Instruction Operand Encoding¶

  ------- --------------- --------------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1       Operand 2       Operand 3   Operand 4
  RM      ModRM:reg (w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA
  ------- --------------- --------------- ----------- -----------


Description¶

Converts two packed single-precision floating-point values in the source
operand (second operand) to two packed signed doubleword integers in the
destination operand (first operand). The source operand can be an XMM
register or a 64-bit memory location. The destination operand is an MMX
technology register. When the source operand is an XMM register, the two
single-precision floating-point values are contained in the low quadword
of the register.

When a conversion is inexact, a truncated (round toward zero) result is
returned. If a converted result is larger than the maximum signed
doubleword integer, the floating-point invalid exception is raised, and
if this exception is masked, the indefinite integer value (80000000H) is
returned.

This instruction causes a transition from x87 FPU to MMX technology
operation (that is, the x87 FPU top-of-stack pointer is set to 0 and the
x87 FPU tag word is set to all 0s [valid]). If this instruction is
executed while an x87 FPU floating-point exception is pending, the
exception is handled before the CVTTPS2PI instruction is executed.

In 64-bit mode, use of the REX.R prefix permits this instruction to
access additional registers (XMM8-XMM15).


Operation¶

    DEST[31:0] ← Convert_Single_Precision_Floating_Point_To_Integer_Truncate(SRC[31:0]);
    DEST[63:32] ← Convert_Single_Precision_Floating_Point_To_Integer_Truncate(SRC[63:32]);


Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent¶

    CVTTPS2PI: __m64 _mm_cvttps_pi32(__m128 a)


SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions¶

Invalid, Precision


Other Exceptions¶

See Table 22-5, “Exception Conditions for Legacy SIMD/MMX Instructions
with XMM and FP Exception,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3B_.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
