-   Index
-   May 2019



ENCLV — EXECUTE AN ENCLAVE VMM FUNCTION OF SPECIFIED LEAF NUMBER


  Opcode/Instruction   Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  -------------------- ------- ------------------------ -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NP 0F 01 C0 ENCLV    NP      V/V                      NA                   This instruction is used to execute privileged SGX leaf functions that are reserved for VMM use. They are used for managing the enclaves.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------------------------
  Op/En   Operand 1   Operand 2   Operand 3   Implicit Register Operands
  NP      NA          NA          NA          See Section 40.3
  ------- ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------------------------

Description ¶

The ENCLV instruction invokes the virtualization SGX leaf functions for
managing enclaves in a virtualized environment. Software specifies the
leaf function by setting the appropriate value in the register EAX as
input. The registers RBX, RCX, and RDX have leaf-specific purpose, and
may act as input, as output, or may be unused. In non 64-bit mode, the
instruction ignores upper 32 bits of the RAX register.

The ENCLV instruction produces an invalid-opcode exception (#UD) if
CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1, if it is executed in system-management mode
(SMM), or not in VMX operation. Additionally, any attempt to execute the
instruction when CPL > 0 results in #UD. The instruction produces a
general-protection exception (#GP) if CR0.PG = 0 or if an attempt is
made to invoke an undefined leaf function.

Software in VMX root mode of operation can enable execution of the ENCLV
instruction in VMX non-root mode by setting enable ENCLV execution
control in the VMCS. If enable ENCLV execution control in the VMCS is
clear, execution of the ENCLV instruction in VMX non-root mode results
in #UD.

When execution of ENCLV instruction in VMX non-root mode is enabled,
software in VMX root operation can intercept the invocation of various
ENCLV leaf functions in VMX non-root operation by setting the
corresponding bits in the ENCLV-exiting bitmap.

Addresses and operands are 32 bits in 32-bit mode (IA32_EFER.LMA == 0 ||
CS.L == 0) and are 64 bits in 64-bit mode (IA32_EFER.LMA == 1 && CS.L ==
1). CS.D value has no impact on address calculation.

Segment override prefixes and address-size override prefixes are
ignored, as is the REX prefix in 64-bit mode.

Operation ¶

    IF TSX_ACTIVE
                THEN GOTO TSX_ABORT_PROCESSING; FI;
    IF CR0.PE = 0 or RFLAGS.VM = 1 or in SMM or CPUID.SGX_LEAF.0:EAX.OSS = 0
                THEN #UD; FI;
    IF in VMX non-root operation and IA32_EFER.LMA = 1 and CS.L = 1
                THEN #UD; FI;
    IF (CPL > 0)
                THEN #UD; FI;
    IF in VMX non-root operation
        IF “enable ENCLV exiting“ VM-execution control is 1
                    THEN
                        IF EAX < 63 and ENCLV_exiting_bitmap[EAX] = 1 or EAX> 62 and ENCLV_exiting_bitmap[63] = 1
                            THEN VM exit;
                        FI;
            ELSE
                    #UD; FI;
    FI;
    IF IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.LOCK = 0 or IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.SGX_ENABLE = 0
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    IF (EAX is an invalid leaf number)
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    IF CR0.PG = 0
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    (* DS must not be an expanded down segment *)
    IF not in 64-bit mode and DS.Type is expand-down data
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    Jump to leaf specific flow

Flags Affected ¶

See individual leaf functions.

Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.

If current privilege level is not 0.

If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.OSS [bit 5] = 0.

If logical processor is in SMM.

#GP(0)

If IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.LOCK = 0.

If IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.SGX_ENABLE = 0.

If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.

If data segment expand down.

If CR0.PG=0.

Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

  ----- ---------------------------------------
  #UD   ENCLV is not recognized in real mode.
  ----- ---------------------------------------

Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

  ----- -----------------------------------------------
  #UD   ENCLV is not recognized in virtual-8086 mode.
  ----- -----------------------------------------------

Compatibility Mode Exceptions ¶

Same exceptions as in protected mode.

64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

If any of the LOCK/OSIZE/REP/VEX prefix is used.

If current privilege level is not 0.

If CPUID.(EAX=12H,ECX=0):EAX.OSS [bit 5] = 0.

If logical processor is in SMM.

#GP(0)

If IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.LOCK = 0.

If IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL.SGX_ENABLE = 0.

If input value in EAX encodes an unsupported leaf.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
