-   Index
-   December 2017



FDIV/FDIVP/FIDIV — DIVIDE


  Opcode    Instruction          64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  --------- -------------------- ------------- ----------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  D8 /6     FDIV _m32fp_         Valid         Valid             Divide ST(0) by _m32fp_ and store result in ST(0).
  DC /6     FDIV _m64fp_         Valid         Valid             Divide ST(0) by _m64fp_ and store result in ST(0).
  D8 F0+i   FDIV ST(0), ST(i)    Valid         Valid             Divide ST(0) by ST(i) and store result in ST(0).
  DC F8+i   FDIV ST(i), ST(0)    Valid         Valid             Divide ST(i) by ST(0) and store result in ST(i).
  DE F8+i   FDIVP ST(i), ST(0)   Valid         Valid             Divide ST(i) by ST(0), store result in ST(i), and pop the register stack.
  DE F9     FDIVP                Valid         Valid             Divide ST(1) by ST(0), store result in ST(1), and pop the register stack.
  DA /6     FIDIV _m32int_       Valid         Valid             Divide ST(0) by _m32int_ and store result in ST(0).
  DE /6     FIDIV _m16int_       Valid         Valid             Divide ST(0) by _m16int_ and store result in ST(0).


Description¶

Divides the destination operand by the source operand and stores the
result in the destination location. The destination operand (dividend)
is always in an FPU register; the source operand (divisor) can be a
register or a memory location. Source operands in memory can be in
single-precision or double-precision floating-point format, word or
doubleword integer format.

The no-operand version of the instruction divides the contents of the
ST(1) register by the contents of the ST(0) register. The one-operand
version divides the contents of the ST(0) register by the contents of a
memory location (either a floating-point or an integer value). The
two-operand version, divides the contents of the ST(0) register by the
contents of the ST(i) register or vice versa.

The FDIVP instructions perform the additional operation of popping the
FPU register stack after storing the result. To pop the register stack,
the processor marks the ST(0) register as empty and increments the stack
pointer (TOP) by 1. The no-operand version of the floating-point divide
instructions always results in the register stack being popped. In some
assemblers, the mnemonic for this instruction is FDIV rather than FDIVP.

The FIDIV instructions convert an integer source operand to double
extended-precision floating-point format before performing the division.
When the source operand is an integer 0, it is treated as a +0.

If an unmasked divide-by-zero exception (#Z) is generated, no result is
stored; if the exception is masked, an ∞ of the appropriate sign is
stored in the destination operand.

The following table shows the results obtained when dividing various
classes of numbers, assuming that neither overflow nor underflow occurs.

DEST

SRC

−∞

−F

−0

+0

+F

+∞

NaN

−∞

*

+0

+0

−0

−0

*

NaN

−F

+∞

+F

+0

−0

−F

−∞

NaN

−I

+∞

+F

+0

−0

−F

−∞

NaN

−0

+∞

**

*

*

**

−∞

NaN

+0

−∞

**

*

*

**

+∞

NaN

+I

−∞

−F

−0

+0

+F

+∞

NaN

+F

−∞

−F

−0

+0

+F

+∞

NaN

+∞

*

−0

−0

+0

+0

*

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

NaN

Table 3-24. FDIV/FDIVP/FIDIV Results

  F Meansfinitefloating-pointvalue.

  I Means integer.

  * Indicatesfloating-pointinvalid-arithmetic-operand(#IA)exception.

  ** Indicates floating-point zero-divide (#Z) exception.

This instruction’s operation is the same in non-64-bit modes and 64-bit
mode.


Operation¶

    IF SRC = 0
        THEN
            #Z;
        ELSE
            IF Instruction is FIDIV
                THEN
                    DEST ← DEST / ConvertToDoubleExtendedPrecisionFP(SRC);
                ELSE (* Source operand is floating-point value *)
                    DEST ← DEST / SRC;
            FI;
    FI;
    IF Instruction = FDIVP
        THEN
            PopRegisterStack;
    FI;


FPU Flags Affected¶

C1

Set to 0 if stack underflow occurred.

Set if result was rounded up; cleared otherwise.

C0, C2, C3

Undefined.


Floating-Point Exceptions¶

#IS

Stack underflow occurred.

#IA

Operand is an SNaN value or unsupported format.

±∞ / ±∞; ±0 / ±0

#D

Source is a denormal value.

#Z

DEST / ±0, where DEST is not equal to ±0.

#U

Result is too small for destination format.

#O

Result is too large for destination format.

#P

Value cannot be represented exactly in destination format.


Protected Mode Exceptions¶

#GP(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.

#SS(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#NM

CR0.EM[bit 2] or CR0.TS[bit 3] = 1.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions¶

  ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP   If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
  #SS   If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
  #NM   CR0.EM[bit 2] or CR0.TS[bit 3] = 1.
  #UD   If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions¶

  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP(0)            If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
  #SS(0)            If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
  #NM               CR0.EM[bit 2] or CR0.TS[bit 3] = 1.
  #PF(fault-code)   If a page fault occurs.
  #AC(0)            If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
  #UD               If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Compatibility Mode Exceptions¶

Same exceptions as in protected mode.


64-Bit Mode Exceptions¶

  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #SS(0)            If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non-canonical form.
  #GP(0)            If the memory address is in a non-canonical form.
  #NM               CR0.EM[bit 2] or CR0.TS[bit 3] = 1.
  #MF               If there is a pending x87 FPU exception.
  #PF(fault-code)   If a page fault occurs.
  #AC(0)            If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
  #UD               If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
