-   Index
-   May 2019



GETSEC[SENTER] — ENTER A MEASURED ENVIRONMENT


  Opcode             Instruction      Description
  ------------------ ---------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NP 0F 37 (EAX=4)   GETSEC[SENTER]   Launch a measured environment. EBX holds the SINIT authenticated code module physical base address. ECX holds the SINIT authenticated code module size (bytes). EDX controls the level of functionality supported by the measured environment launch.


Description ¶

The GETSEC[SENTER] instruction initiates the launch of a measured
environment and places the initiating logical processor (ILP) into the
authenticated code execution mode. The SENTER leaf of GETSEC is selected
with EAX set to 4 at execution. The physical base address of the AC
module to be loaded and authenticated is specified in EBX. The size of
the module in bytes is specified in ECX. EDX controls the level of
functionality supported by the measured environment launch. To enable
the full functionality of the protected environment launch, EDX must be
initialized to zero.

The authenticated code base address and size parameters (in bytes) are
passed to the GETSEC[SENTER] instruction using EBX and ECX respectively.
The ILP evaluates the contents of these registers according to the rules
for the AC module address in GETSEC[ENTERACCS]. AC module execution
follows the same rules, as set by GETSEC[ENTERACCS].

The launching software must ensure that the TPM.ACCESS_0.activeLocality
bit is clear before executing the GETSEC[SENTER] instruction.

There are restrictions enforced by the processor for execution of the
GETSEC[SENTER] instruction:

-   Execution is not allowed unless the processor is in protected mode
    or IA-32e mode with CPL = 0 and EFLAGS.VM = 0.
-   Processor cache must be available and not disabled using the CR0.CD
    and NW bits.
-   For enforcing consistency of operation with numeric exception
    reporting using Interrupt 16, CR0.NE must be set.
-   An Intel TXT-capable chipset must be present as communicated to the
    processor by sampling of the power-on configuration capability field
    after reset.
-   The processor can not be in authenticated code execution mode or
    already in a measured environment (as launched by a previous
    GETSEC[ENTERACCS] or GETSEC[SENTER] instruction).
-   To avoid potential operability conflicts between modes, the
    processor is not allowed to execute this instruction if it currently
    is in SMM or VMX operation.
-   To insure consistent handling of SIPI messages, the processor
    executing the GETSEC[SENTER] instruction must also be designated the
    BSP (boot-strap processor) as defined by A32_APIC_BASE.BSP (Bit 8).
-   EDX must be initialized to a setting supportable by the processor.
    Unless enumeration by the GETSEC[PARAMETERS] leaf reports otherwise,
    only a value of zero is supported.

Failure to abide by the above conditions results in the processor
signaling a general protection violation.

This instruction leaf starts the launch of a measured environment by
initiating a rendezvous sequence for all logical processors in the
platform. The rendezvous sequence involves the initiating logical
processor sending a message (by executing GETSEC[SENTER]) and other
responding logical processors (RLPs) acknowledging the message, thus
synchronizing the RLP(s) with the ILP.

In response to a message signaling the completion of rendezvous, RLPs
clear the bootstrap processor indicator flag (IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP) and
enter an SENTER sleep state. In this sleep state, RLPs enter an idle
processor condition while waiting to be activated after a measured
environment has been established by the system executive. RLPs in the
SENTER sleep state can only be activated by the GETSEC leaf function
WAKEUP in a measured environment.

A successful launch of the measured environment results in the
initiating logical processor entering the authenticated code execution
mode. Prior to reaching this point, the ILP performs the following steps
internally:

-   Inhibit processor response to the external events: INIT, A20M, NMI,
    and SMI.
-   Establish and check the location and size of the authenticated code
    module to be executed by the ILP.
-   Check for the existence of an Intel^(®) TXT-capable chipset.
-   Verify the current power management configuration is acceptable.
-   Broadcast a message to enable protection of memory and I/O from
    activities from other processor agents.
-   Load the designated AC module into authenticated code execution
    area.
-   Isolate the content of authenticated code execution area from
    further state modification by external agents.
-   Authenticate the AC module.
-   Updated the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) with the authenticated
    code module's hash.
-   Initialize processor state based on the authenticated code module
    header information.
-   Unlock the Intel^(®) TXT-capable chipset private configuration
    register space and TPM locality 3 space.
-   Begin execution in the authenticated code module at the defined
    entry point.

As an integrity check for proper processor hardware operation, execution
of GETSEC[SENTER] will also check the contents of all the machine check
status registers (as reported by the MSRs IA32_MCi_STATUS) for any valid
uncorrectable error condition. In addition, the global machine check
status register IA32_MCG_STATUS MCIP bit must be cleared and the IERR
processor package pin (or its equivalent) must be not asserted,
indicating that no machine check exception processing is currently
in-progress. These checks are performed twice: once by the ILP prior to
the broadcast of the rendezvous message to RLPs, and later in response
to RLPs acknowledging the rendezvous message. Any outstanding valid
uncorrectable machine check error condition present in the machine check
status registers at the first check point will result in the ILP
signaling a general protection violation. If an outstanding valid
uncorrectable machine check error condition is present at the second
check point, then this will result in the corresponding logical
processor signaling the more severe TXT-shutdown condition with an error
code of 12.

Before loading and authentication of the target code module is
performed, the processor also checks that the current voltage and bus
ratio encodings correspond to known good values supportable by the
processor. The MSR IA32_PERF_STATUS values are compared against either
the processor supported maximum operating target setting, system reset
setting, or the thermal monitor operating target. If the current
settings do not meet any of these criteria then the SENTER function will
attempt to change the voltage and bus ratio select controls in a
processor-specific manner. This adjustment may be to the thermal
monitor, minimum (if different), or maximum operating target depending
on the processor.

This implies that some thermal operating target parameters configured by
BIOS may be overridden by SENTER. The measured environment software may
need to take responsibility for restoring such settings that are deemed
to be safe, but not necessarily recognized by SENTER. If an adjustment
is not possible when an out of range setting is discovered, then the
processor will abort the measured launch. This may be the case for
chipset controlled settings of these values or if the controllability is
not enabled on the processor. In this case it is the responsibility of
the external software to program the chipset voltage ID and/or bus ratio
select settings to known good values recognized by the processor, prior
to executing SENTER.

  For a mobile processor, an adjustment can be made according to the
  thermal monitor operating target. For a quad-core processor the SENTER
  adjustment mechanism may result in a more conservative but non-uniform
  voltage setting, depending on the pre-SENTER settings per core.

The ILP and RLPs mask the response to the assertion of the external
signals INIT#, A20M, NMI#, and SMI#. The purpose of this masking control
is to prevent exposure to existing external event handlers until a
protected handler has been put in place to directly handle these events.
Masked external pin events may be unmasked conditionally or
unconditionally via the GETSEC[EXITAC], GETSEC[SEXIT], GETSEC[SMCTRL] or
for specific VMX related operations such as a VM entry or the VMXOFF
instruction (see respective GETSEC leaves and _Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3C_ for more details).
The state of the A20M pin is masked and forced internally to a
de-asserted state so that external assertion is not recognized. A20M
masking as set by

GETSEC[SENTER] is undone only after taking down the measured environment
with the GETSEC[SEXIT] instruction or processor reset. INTR is masked by
simply clearing the EFLAGS.IF bit. It is the responsibility of system
software to control the processor response to INTR through appropriate
management of EFLAGS.

To prevent other (logical) processors from interfering with the ILP
operating in authenticated code execution mode, memory (excluding
implicit write-back transactions) and I/O activities originating from
other processor agents are blocked. This protection starts when the ILP
enters into authenticated code execution mode. Only memory and I/O
transactions initiated from the ILP are allowed to proceed. Exiting
authenticated code execution mode is done by executing GETSEC[EXITAC].
The protection of memory and I/O activities remains in effect until the
ILP executes GETSEC[EXITAC].

Once the authenticated code module has been loaded into the
authenticated code execution area, it is protected against further
modification from external bus snoops. There is also a requirement that
the memory type for the authenticated code module address range be WB
(via initialization of the MTRRs prior to execution of this
instruction). If this condition is not satisfied, it is a violation of
security and the processor will force a TXT system reset (after writing
an error code to the chipset LT.ERRORCODE register). This action is
referred to as a Intel® TXT reset condition. It is performed when it is
considered unreliable to signal an error through the conventional
exception reporting mechanism.

To conform to the minimum granularity of MTRR MSRs for specifying the
memory type, authenticated code RAM (ACRAM) is allocated to the
processor in 4096 byte granular blocks. If an AC module size as
specified in ECX is not a multiple of 4096 then the processor will
allocate up to the next 4096 byte boundary for mapping as ACRAM with
indeterminate data. This pad area will not be visible to the
authenticated code module as external memory nor can it depend on the
value of the data used to fill the pad area.

Once successful authentication has been completed by the ILP, the
computed hash is stored in a trusted storage facility in the platform.
The following trusted storage facility are supported:

-   If the platform register FTM_INTERFACE_ID.[bits 3:0] = 0, the
    computed hash is stored to the platform’s TPM at PCR17 after this
    register is implicitly reset. PCR17 is a dedicated register for
    holding the computed hash of the authenticated code module loaded
    and subsequently executed by the GETSEC[SENTER]. As part of this
    process, the dynamic PCRs 18-22 are reset so they can be utilized by
    subsequently software for registration of code and data modules.
-   If the platform register FTM_INTERFACE_ID.[bits 3:0] = 1, the
    computed hash is stored in a firmware trusted module (FTM) using a
    modified protocol similar to the protocol used to write to TPM’s
    PCR17.

After successful execution of SENTER, either PCR17 (if FTM is not
enabled) or the FTM (if enabled) contains the measurement of AC code and
the SENTER launching parameters.

After authentication is completed successfully, the private
configuration space of the Intel^(®) TXT-capable chipset is unlocked so
that the authenticated code module and measured environment software can
gain access to this normally restricted chipset state. The Intel®
TXT-capable chipset private configuration space can be locked later by
software writing to the chipset LT.CMD.CLOSE-PRIVATE register or
unconditionally using the GETSEC[SEXIT] instruction.

The SENTER leaf function also initializes some processor architecture
state for the ILP from contents held in the header of the authenticated
code module. Since the authenticated code module is relocatable, all
address references are relative to the base address passed in via EBX.
The ILP GDTR base value is initialized to EBX + [GDTBasePtr] and GDTR
limit set to [GDTLimit]. The CS selector is initialized to the value
held in the AC module header field SegSel, while the DS, SS, and ES
selectors are initialized to CS+8. The segment descriptor fields are
initialized implicitly with BASE=0, LIMIT=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, P=1, S=1,
read/write/accessed for DS, SS, and ES, while execute/read/accessed for
CS. Execution in the authenticated code module for the ILP begins with
the EIP set to EBX + [EntryPoint]. AC module defined fields used for
initializing processor state are consistency checked with a failure
resulting in an TXT-shutdown condition.

Table 6-6 provides a summary of processor state initialization for the
ILP and RLP(s) after successful completion of GETSEC[SENTER]. For both
ILP and RLP(s), paging is disabled upon entry to the measured
environment. It is up to the ILP to establish a trusted paging
environment, with appropriate mappings, to meet protection requirements
established during the launch of the measured environment. RLP state
initialization is not completed until a subsequent wake-up has been
signaled by execution of the GETSEC[WAKEUP] function by the ILP.

  Register State                                       ILP after GETSEC[SENTER]                                              RLP after GETSEC[WAKEUP]
  ---------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  CR0                                                  PG←0, AM←0, WP←0; Others unchanged                                    PG←0, CD←0, NW←0, AM←0, WP←0; PE←1, NE←1
  CR4                                                  00004000H                                                             00004000H
  EFLAGS                                               00000002H                                                             00000002H
  IA32_EFER                                            0H                                                                    0
  EIP                                                  [EntryPoint from MLE header¹]                                         [LT.MLE.JOIN + 12]
  EBX                                                  Unchanged [SINIT.BASE]                                                Unchanged
  EDX                                                  SENTER control flags                                                  Unchanged
  EBP                                                  SINIT.BASE                                                            Unchanged
  CS                                                   Sel=[SINIT SegSel], base=0, limit=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, AR=9BH            Sel = [LT.MLE.JOIN + 8], base = 0, limit = FFFFFH, G = 1, D = 1, AR = 9BH
  DS, ES, SS                                           Sel=[SINIT SegSel] +8, base=0, limit=FFFFFh, G=1, D=1, AR=93H         Sel = [LT.MLE.JOIN + 8] +8, base = 0, limit = FFFFFH, G = 1, D = 1, AR = 93H
  GDTR                                                 Base= SINIT.base (EBX) + [SINIT.GDTBasePtr], Limit=[SINIT.GDTLimit]   Base = [LT.MLE.JOIN + 4], Limit = [LT.MLE.JOIN]
  DR7                                                  00000400H                                                             00000400H
  IA32_DEBUGCTL                                        0H                                                                    0H
  Performance counters and counter control registers   0H                                                                    0H
  IA32_MISC_ENABLE                                     See Table 6-5                                                         See Table 6-5
  IA32_SMM_MONITOR _CTL                                Bit 2←0                                                               Bit 2←0

Table 6-6. Register State Initialization after GETSEC[SENTER] and
GETSEC[WAKEUP]

  1. See _Intel® Trusted Execution Technology Measured Launched
  Environment Programming Guide_ for MLE header format.

  Segmentation related processor state that has not been initialized by
  GETSEC[SENTER] requires appropriate initialization before use. Since a
  new GDT context has been established, the previous state of the
  segment selector values held in FS, GS, TR, and LDTR may no longer be
  valid. The IDTR will also require reloading with a new IDT context
  after launching the measured environment before exceptions or the
  external interrupts INTR and NMI can be handled. In the meantime, the
  programmer must take care in not executing an INT n instruction or any
  other condition that would result in an exception or trap signaling.

  Debug exception and trap related signaling is also disabled as part of
  execution of GETSEC[SENTER]. This is achieved by clearing DR7, TF in
  EFLAGs, and the MSR IA32_DEBUGCTL as defined in Table 6-6. These can
  be reenabled once supporting exception handler(s), descriptor tables,
  and debug registers have been properly re-initialized following
  SENTER. Also, any pending single-step trap condition will be cleared
  at the completion of SENTER for both the ILP and RLP(s).

  Performance related counters and counter control registers are cleared
  as part of execution of SENTER on both the ILP and RLP. This implies
  any active performance counters at the time of SENTER execution will
  be disabled. To reactive the processor performance counters, this
  state must be re-initialized and re-enabled.

  Since MCE along with all other state bits (with the exception of SMXE)
  are cleared in CR4 upon execution of SENTER processing, any enabled
  machine check error condition that occurs will result in the processor
  performing the TXT-

shutdown action. This also applies to an RLP while in the SENTER sleep
state. For each logical processor CR4.MCE must be reestablished with a
valid machine check exception handler to otherwise avoid an TXT-shutdown
under such conditions.

The MSR IA32_EFER is also unconditionally cleared as part of the
processor state initialized by SENTER for both the ILP and RLP. Since
paging is disabled upon entering authenticated code execution mode, a
new paging environment will have to be re-established if it is desired
to enable IA-32e mode while operating in authenticated code execution
mode.

The miscellaneous feature control MSR, IA32_MISC_ENABLE, is initialized
as part of the measured environment launch. Certain bits of this MSR are
preserved because preserving these bits may be important to maintain
previously established platform settings. See the footnote for Table 6-5
The remaining bits are cleared for the purpose of establishing a more
consistent environment for the execution of authenticated code modules.
Among the impact of initializing this MSR, any previous condition
established by the MONITOR instruction will be cleared.

EFFECT OF MSR IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL MSR

Bits 15:8 of the IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL MSR affect the execution of
GETSEC[SENTER]. These bits consist of two fields:

-   Bit 15: a global enable control for execution of SENTER.
-   Bits 14:8: a parameter control field providing the ability to
    qualify SENTER execution based on the level of functionality
    specified with corresponding EDX parameter bits 6:0.

The layout of these fields in the IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL MSR is shown in
Table 6-1.

Prior to the execution of GETSEC[SENTER], the lock bit of
IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL MSR must be bit set to affirm the settings to be
used. Once the lock bit is set, only a power-up reset condition will
clear this MSR. The IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL MSR must be configured in
accordance to the intended usage at platform initialization. Note that
this MSR is only available on SMX or VMX enabled processors. Otherwise,
IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL is treated as reserved.

The _Intel® Trusted Execution Technology Measured Launched Environment
Programming Guide_ provides additional details and requirements for
programming measured environment software to launch in an Intel TXT
platform.


Operation in a Uni-Processor Platform ¶

(* The state of the internal flag ACMODEFLAG and SENTERFLAG persist
across instruction boundary *)

GETSEC[SENTER] (ILP ONLY):

IF (CR4.SMXE=0)

THEN #UD;

ELSE IF (in VMX non-root operation)

THEN VM Exit (reason=”GETSEC instruction”);

ELSE IF (GETSEC leaf unsupported)

THEN #UD;

ELSE IF ((in VMX root operation) or

(CR0.PE=0) or (CR0.CD=1) or (CR0.NW=1) or (CR0.NE=0) or

(CPL>0) or (EFLAGS.VM=1) or

(IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP=0) or (TXT chipset not present) or

(SENTERFLAG=1) or (ACMODEFLAG=1) or (IN_SMM=1) or

(TPM interface is not present) or

(EDX ≠ (SENTER_EDX_support_mask & EDX)) or

(IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL[0]=0) or (IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL[15]=0) or

((IA32_FEATURE_CONTROL[14:8] & EDX[6:0]) ≠ EDX[6:0]))

THEN #GP(0);

IF (GETSEC[PARAMETERS].Parameter_Type = 5, MCA_Handling (bit 6) = 0)

FOR I = 0 to IA32_MCG_CAP.COUNT-1 DO

IF IA32_MC[I]_STATUS = uncorrectable error

THEN #GP(0);

FI;

OD;

FI;

IF (IA32_MCG_STATUS.MCIP=1) or (IERR pin is asserted)

THEN #GP(0);

ACBASE← EBX; ACSIZE← ECX; IF (((ACBASE MOD 4096) ≠ 0) or ((ACSIZE MOD
64) ≠ 0 ) or (ACSIZE < minimum

module size) or (ACSIZE > AC RAM capacity) or ((ACBASE+ACSIZE) > (2^32
-1)))

THEN #GP(0);

Mask SMI, INIT, A20M, and NMI external pin events;

SignalTXTMsg(SENTER);

DO

WHILE (no SignalSENTER message);

TXT_SENTER__MSG_EVENT (ILP & RLP):

Mask and clear SignalSENTER event;

Unmask SignalSEXIT event;

IF (in VMX operation)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#IllegalEvent);

FOR I = 0 to IA32_MCG_CAP.COUNT-1 DO

IF IA32_MC[I]_STATUS = uncorrectable error

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#UnrecovMCError);

FI;

OD;

IF (IA32_MCG_STATUS.MCIP=1) or (IERR pin is asserted)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#UnrecovMCError);

IF (Voltage or bus ratio status are NOT at a known good state)

THEN IF (Voltage select and bus ratio are internally adjustable)

THEN

Make product-specific adjustment on operating parameters;

ELSE

TXT-SHUTDOWN(#IIlegalVIDBRatio);

FI;

IA32_MISC_ENABLE← (IA32_MISC_ENABLE & MASK_CONST*) (* The hexadecimal
value of MASK_CONST may vary due to processor implementations *)

A20M← 0; IA32_DEBUGCTL← 0; Invalidate processor TLB(s);

Drain outgoing transactions;

Clear performance monitor counters and control;

SENTERFLAG← 1; SignalTXTMsg(SENTERAck);

IF (logical processor is not ILP)

THEN GOTO RLP_SENTER_ROUTINE;

(* ILP waits for all logical processors to ACK *)

DO

DONE← TXT.READ(LT.STS); WHILE (not DONE);

SignalTXTMsg(SENTERContinue);

SignalTXTMsg(ProcessorHold);

FOR I=ACBASE to ACBASE+ACSIZE-1 DO

ACRAM[I-ACBASE].ADDR← I; ACRAM[I-ACBASE].DATA← LOAD(I); OD;

IF (ACRAM memory type ≠ WB)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMMType);

IF (AC module header version is not supported) OR (ACRAM[ModuleType] ≠
2)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#UnsupportedACM);

KEY← GETKEY(ACRAM, ACBASE); KEYHASH← HASH(KEY); CSKEYHASH←
LT.READ(LT.PUBLIC.KEY); IF (KEYHASH ≠ CSKEYHASH)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#AuthenticateFail);

SIGNATURE← DECRYPT(ACRAM, ACBASE, KEY); (* The value of
SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST is implementation-specific*)

FOR I=0 to SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST - 1 DO

ACRAM[SCRATCH.I]← SIGNATURE[I]; COMPUTEDSIGNATURE← HASH(ACRAM, ACBASE,
ACSIZE); FOR I=0 to SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST - 1 DO

ACRAM[SCRATCH.SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST+I]← COMPUTEDSIGNATURE[I]; IF
(SIGNATURE ≠ COMPUTEDSIGNATURE)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#AuthenticateFail);

ACMCONTROL← ACRAM[CodeControl]; IF ((ACMCONTROL.0 = 0) and (ACMCONTROL.1
= 1) and (snoop hit to modified line detected on ACRAM load))

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#UnexpectedHITM);

IF (ACMCONTROL reserved bits are set)

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

IF ((ACRAM[GDTBasePtr] < (ACRAM[HeaderLen] * 4 + Scratch_size)) OR

((ACRAM[GDTBasePtr] + ACRAM[GDTLimit]) >= ACSIZE))

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

IF ((ACMCONTROL.0 = 1) and (ACMCONTROL.1 = 1) and (snoop hit to modified

line detected on ACRAM load))

THEN ACEntryPoint← ACBASE+ACRAM[ErrorEntryPoint]; ELSE

ACEntryPoint← ACBASE+ACRAM[EntryPoint]; IF ((ACEntryPoint >= ACSIZE) or
(ACEntryPoint < (ACRAM[HeaderLen] * 4 + Scratch_size)))

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

IF ((ACRAM[SegSel] > (ACRAM[GDTLimit] - 15)) or (ACRAM[SegSel] < 8))

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

IF ((ACRAM[SegSel].TI=1) or (ACRAM[SegSel].RPL≠0))

THEN TXT-SHUTDOWN(#BadACMFormat);

IF (FTM_INTERFACE_ID.[3:0] = 1 ) (* Alternate FTM Interface has been
enabled *)

THEN (* TPM_LOC_CTRL_4 is located at 0FED44008H, TMP_DATA_BUFFER_4 is
located at 0FED44080H *)

WRITE(TPM_LOC_CTRL_4) ← 01H; (* Modified HASH.START protocol *) (* Write
to firmware storage *)

WRITE(TPM_DATA_BUFFER_4) ← SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST + 4; FOR I=0 to
SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST - 1 DO

WRITE(TPM_DATA_BUFFER_4 + 2 + I )← ACRAM[SCRATCH.I];
WRITE(TPM_DATA_BUFFER_4 + 2 + SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST) ← EDX;
WRITE(FTM.LOC_CTRL) ← 06H; (* Modified protocol combining HASH.DATA and
HASH.END *) ELSE IF (FTM_INTERFACE_ID.[3:0] = 0 ) (* Use standard TPM
Interface *)

ACRAM[SCRATCH.SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST]← EDX; WRITE(TPM.HASH.START)← 0; FOR
I=0 to SIGNATURE_LEN_CONST + 3 DO

WRITE(TPM.HASH.DATA)← ACRAM[SCRATCH.I]; WRITE(TPM.HASH.END)← 0;

ACMODEFLAG← 1; CR0.[PG.AM.WP]← 0; CR4← 00004000h; EFLAGS← 00000002h;
IA32_EFER← 0; EBP← ACBASE; GDTR.BASE← ACBASE+ACRAM[GDTBasePtr];
GDTR.LIMIT← ACRAM[GDTLimit]; CS.SEL← ACRAM[SegSel]; CS.BASE← 0;
CS.LIMIT← FFFFFh; CS.G← 1; CS.D← 1; CS.AR← 9Bh; DS.SEL← ACRAM[SegSel]+8;
DS.BASE← 0; DS.LIMIT← FFFFFh; DS.G← 1; DS.D← 1; DS.AR← 93h; SS← DS; ES←
DS; DR7← 00000400h; IA32_DEBUGCTL← 0; SignalTXTMsg(UnlockSMRAM);

SignalTXTMsg(OpenPrivate);

SignalTXTMsg(OpenLocality3);

EIP← ACEntryPoint; END;

RLP_SENTER_ROUTINE: (RLP ONLY)

Mask SMI, INIT, A20M, and NMI external pin events

Unmask SignalWAKEUP event;

Wait for SignalSENTERContinue message;

IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP← 0; GOTO SENTER sleep state;

END;


Flags Affected ¶

All flags are cleared.


Use of Prefixes ¶

LOCK Causes #UD.

REP* Cause #UD (includes REPNE/REPNZ and REP/REPE/REPZ).

Operand size Causes #UD.

NP 66/F2/F3 prefixes are not allowed.

Segmentoverrides Ignored.

Address size Ignored.

REX Ignored.


Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

If CR4.SMXE = 0.

If GETSEC[SENTER] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES].

#GP(0)

IfCR0.CD=1orCR0.NW=1orCR0.NE=0orCR0.PE=0orCPL>0orEFLAGS.VM=1.

If in VMX root operation.

If the initiating processor is not designated as the bootstrap processor
via the MSR bit IA32_APIC_BASE.BSP.

If an Intel® TXT-capable chipset is not present.

If an Intel® TXT-capable chipset interface to TPM is not detected as
present.

If a protected partition is already active or the processor is already
in authenticated code mode.

If the processor is in SMM.

If a valid uncorrectable machine check error is logged in
IA32_MC[I]_STATUS.

If the authenticated code base is not on a 4096 byte boundary.

If the authenticated code size > processor's authenticated code
execution area storage capacity.

If the authenticated code size is not modulo 64.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

If CR4.SMXE = 0.

If GETSEC[SENTER] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES].

#GP(0)

GETSEC[SENTER] is not recognized in real-address mode.


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

If CR4.SMXE = 0.

If GETSEC[SENTER] is not reported as supported by GETSEC[CAPABILITIES].

#GP(0)

GETSEC[SENTER] is not recognized in virtual-8086 mode.


Compatibility Mode Exceptions ¶

All protected mode exceptions apply.

  ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP   IF AC code module does not reside in physical address below 2^32 -1.
  ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------


64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

All protected mode exceptions apply.

  ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP   IF AC code module does not reside in physical address below 2^32 -1.
  ----- ----------------------------------------------------------------------


VM-Exit Condition ¶

Reason (GETSEC) IF in VMX non-root operation.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
