-   Index
-   May 2019



INVLPG — INVALIDATE TLB ENTRIES


        Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  -- -- ------- ------------- ----------------- -------------------------------------------------
        M       Valid         Valid             Invalidate TLB entries for page containing _m._

  * SeetheIA-32ArchitectureCompatibilitysectionbelow.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1       Operand 2   Operand 3   Operand 4
  M       ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA          NA
  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------


Description ¶

Invalidates any translation lookaside buffer (TLB) entries specified
with the source operand. The source operand is a memory address. The
processor determines the page that contains that address and flushes all
TLB entries for that page.¹

  1. If the paging structures map the linear address using a page larger
  than 4 KBytes and there are multiple TLB entries for that page (see
  Section 4.10.2.3, “Details of TLB Use,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32
  Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A_), the
  instruction invalidates all of them.

The INVLPG instruction is a privileged instruction. When the processor
is running in protected mode, the CPL must be 0 to execute this
instruction.

The INVLPG instruction normally flushes TLB entries only for the
specified page; however, in some cases, it may flush more entries, even
the entire TLB. The instruction invalidates TLB entries associated with
the current PCID and may or may not do so for TLB entries associated
with other PCIDs. (If PCIDs are disabled — CR4.PCIDE = 0 — the current
PCID is 000H.) The instruction also invalidates any global TLB entries
for the specified page, regardless of PCID.

For more details on operations that flush the TLB, see “MOV—Move to/from
Control Registers” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 2B_ and Section 4.10.4.1, “Operations that
Invalidate TLBs and Paging-Structure Caches,” in the _Intel® 64 and
IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A_.

This instruction’s operation is the same in all non-64-bit modes. It
also operates the same in 64-bit mode, except if the memory address is
in non-canonical form. In this case, INVLPG is the same as a NOP.


IA-32 Architecture Compatibility ¶

The INVLPG instruction is implementation dependent, and its function may
be implemented differently on different families of Intel 64 or IA-32
processors. This instruction is not supported on IA-32 processors
earlier than the Intel486 processor.


Operation ¶

    Invalidate(RelevantTLBEntries);
    Continue; (* Continue execution *)


Flags Affected ¶

None.


Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0.

#UD

Operand is a register.

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

#UD

Operand is a register.

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

  -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP(0)   The INVLPG instruction cannot be executed at the virtual-8086 mode.
  -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------


64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0.

#UD

Operand is a register.

If the LOCK prefix is used.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
