-   Index
-   December 2017



INVVPID — INVALIDATE TRANSLATIONS BASED ON VPID


  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  OPCODE INSTRUCTION DESCRIPTION 66 0F 38 81 INVVPID r64, m128 Invalidates entries in the TLBs and paging-structure caches based on VPID (in 64-bit mode) 66 0F 38 81 INVVPID r32, m128 Invalidates entries in the TLBs and paging-structure caches based on VPID (outside 64-bit mode)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Description¶

Invalidates mappings in the translation lookaside buffers (TLBs) and
paging-structure caches based on VIRTUALPROCESSOR IDENTIFIER (VPID).
(See Chapter 28, “VMX Support for Address Translation”.) Invalidation is
based on the INVVPID TYPE specified in the register operand and the
INVVPID DESCRIPTOR specified in the memory operand.

Outside IA-32e mode, the register operand is always 32 bits, regardless
of the value of CS.D; in 64-bit mode, the register operand has 64 bits
(the instruction cannot be executed in compatibility mode).

The INVVPID types supported by a logical processors are reported in the
IA32_VMX_EPT_VPID_CAP MSR (see Appendix A, “VMX Capability Reporting
Facility”). There are four INVVPID types currently defined:

-   Individual-address invalidation: If the INVVPID type is 0, the
    logical processor invalidates mappings for the linear address and
    VPID specified in the INVVPID descriptor. In some cases, it may
    invalidate mappings for other linear addresses (or other VPIDs) as
    well.
-   Single-context invalidation: If the INVVPID type is 1, the logical
    processor invalidates all mappings tagged with the VPID specified in
    the INVVPID descriptor. In some cases, it may invalidate mappings
    for other VPIDs as well.
-   All-contexts invalidation: If the INVVPID type is 2, the logical
    processor invalidates all mappings tagged with all VPIDs except VPID
    0000H. In some cases, it may invalidate translations with VPID 0000H
    as well.
-   Single-context invalidation, retaining global translations: If the
    INVVPID type is 3, the logical processor invalidates all mappings
    tagged with the VPID specified in the INVVPID descriptor except
    global translations. In some cases, it may invalidate global
    translations (and mappings with other VPIDs) as well. See the
    “Caching Translation Information” section in Chapter 4 of the _IA-32
    Intel Architecture Software Developer’s Manual,_ _Volumes 3A_ for
    information about global translations.

If an unsupported INVVPID type is specified, the instruction fails.

INVVPID invalidates all the specified mappings for the indicated VPID(s)
regardless of the EPTP and PCID values with which those mappings may be
associated.

The INVVPID descriptor comprises 128 bits and consists of a VPID and a
linear address as shown in Figure 30-2.

127 6463 1615 0 Linear Address Reserved (must be zero) VPID

Figure 30-2. INVVPID Descriptor


Operation¶

    IF (not in VMX operation) or (CR0.PE = 0) or (RFLAGS.VM = 1) or (IA32_EFER.LMA = 1 and CS.L = 0)
        THEN #UD;
    ELSIF in VMX non-root operation
        THEN VM exit;
    ELSIF CPL > 0
        THEN #GP(0);
        ELSE
            INVVPID_TYPE ← value of register operand;
            IF IA32_VMX_EPT_VPID_CAP MSR indicates that processor does not support
            INVVPID_TYPE
                THEN VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                ELSE // INVVPID_TYPE must be in the range 0–3
                    INVVPID_DESC ← value of memory operand;
                    IF INVVPID_DESC[63:16] ≠ 0
                        THEN VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                        ELSE
                            CASE INVVPID_TYPE OF
                                0:
                                                // individual-address invalidation
                                    VPID ← INVVPID_DESC[15:0];
                                    IF VPID = 0
                                        THEN VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                                        ELSE
                                            GL_ADDR ← INVVPID_DESC[127:64];
                                            IF (GL_ADDR is not in a canonical form)
                                                THEN
                                                    VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                                                ELSE
                                                    Invalidate mappings for GL_ADDR tagged with VPID;
                                                    VMsucceed;
                                            FI;
                                    FI;
                                    BREAK;
                                1:
                                                // single-context invalidation
                                    VPID ← INVVPID_DESC[15:0];
                                    IF VPID = 0
                                        THEN VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                                        ELSE
                                            Invalidate all mappings tagged with VPID;
                                            VMsucceed;
                                    FI;
                                    BREAK;
                                2:
                                                // all-context invalidation
                                    Invalidate all mappings tagged with all non-zero VPIDs;
                                    VMsucceed;
                                    BREAK;
                                3:
                                                // single-context invalidation retaining globals
                                    VPID ← INVVPID_DESC[15:0];
                                    IF VPID = 0
                                        THEN VMfail(Invalid operand to INVEPT/INVVPID);
                                        ELSE
                                            Invalidate all mappings tagged with VPID except global translations;
                                            VMsucceed;
                                    FI;
                                    BREAK;
                            ESAC;
                    FI;
            FI;
    FI;


Flags Affected¶

See the operation section and Section 30.2.


Protected Mode Exceptions¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0.

If the memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS,
or GS segment limit.

If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains an unusable segment.

If the source operand is located in an execute-only code segment.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs in accessing the memory operand.

#SS(0)

If the memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

If the SS register contains an unusable segment.

#UD

If not in VMX operation.

If the logical processor does not support VPIDs
(IA32_VMX_PROCBASED_CTLS2[37]=0).

If the logical processor supports VPIDs (IA32_VMX_PROCBASED_CTLS2[37]=1)
but does not support the INVVPID instruction
(IA32_VMX_EPT_VPID_CAP[32]=0).


Real-Address Mode Exceptions¶

  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  #UD   The INVVPID instruction is not recognized in real-address mode.
  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions¶

  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------
  #UD   The INVVPID instruction is not recognized in virtual-8086 mode.
  ----- -----------------------------------------------------------------


Compatibility Mode Exceptions¶

  ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  #UD   The INVVPID instruction is not recognized in compatibility mode.
  ----- ------------------------------------------------------------------


64-Bit Mode Exceptions¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0.

If the memory operand is in the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segments and the
memory address is in a non-canonical form.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs in accessing the memory operand.

#SS(0)

If the memory destination operand is in the SS segment and the memory
address is in a non-canonical form.

#UD

If not in VMX operation.

If the logical processor does not support VPIDs
(IA32_VMX_PROCBASED_CTLS2[37]=0).

If the logical processor supports VPIDs (IA32_VMX_PROCBASED_CTLS2[37]=1)
but does not support the INVVPID instruction
(IA32_VMX_EPT_VPID_CAP[32]=0).

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
