-   Index
-   May 2019



JMP — JUMP


  Opcode        Instruction      Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  ------------- ---------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EB _cb_       JMP _rel8_       D       Valid         Valid             Jump short, RIP = RIP + 8-bit displacement sign extended to 64-bits
  E9 _cw_       JMP _rel16_      D       N.S.          Valid             Jump near, relative, displacement relative to next instruction. Not supported in 64-bit mode.
  E9 _cd_       JMP _rel32_      D       Valid         Valid             Jump near, relative, RIP = RIP + 32-bit displacement sign extended to 64-bits
  FF /4         JMP _r/m16_      M       N.S.          Valid             Jump near, absolute indirect, address = zero-extended _r/m16._ Not supported in 64-bit mode.
  FF /4         JMP _r/m32_      M       N.S.          Valid             Jump near, absolute indirect, address given in _r/m32._ Not supported in 64-bit mode.
  FF /4         JMP _r/m64_      M       Valid         N.E.              Jump near, absolute indirect, RIP = 64-Bit offset from register or memory
  EA _cd_       JMP _ptr16:16_   D       Inv.          Valid             Jump far, absolute, address given in operand
  EA _cp_       JMP _ptr16:32_   D       Inv.          Valid             Jump far, absolute, address given in operand
  FF /5         JMP _m16:16_     D       Valid         Valid             Jump far, absolute indirect, address given in _m16:16_
  FF /5         JMP _m16:32_     D       Valid         Valid             Jump far, absolute indirect, address given in _m16:32._
  REX.W FF /5   JMP _m16:64_     D       Valid         N.E.              Jump far, absolute indirect, address given in _m16:64_.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1       Operand 2   Operand 3   Operand 4
  D       Offset          NA          NA          NA
  M       ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA          NA
  ------- --------------- ----------- ----------- -----------


Description ¶

Transfers program control to a different point in the instruction stream
without recording return information. The destination (target) operand
specifies the address of the instruction being jumped to. This operand
can be an immediate value, a general-purpose register, or a memory
location.

This instruction can be used to execute four different types of jumps:

-   Near jump—A jump to an instruction within the current code segment
    (the segment currently pointed to by the CS register), sometimes
    referred to as an intrasegment jump.
-   Short jump—A near jump where the jump range is limited to –128 to
    +127 from the current EIP value.
-   Far jump—A jump to an instruction located in a different segment
    than the current code segment but at the same privilege level,
    sometimes referred to as an intersegment jump.
-   Task switch—A jump to an instruction located in a different task.

A task switch can only be executed in protected mode (see Chapter 7, in
the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 3A_, for information on performing task switches with the JMP
instruction).

NEAR AND SHORT JUMPS. When executing a near jump, the processor jumps to
the address (within the current code segment) that is specified with the
target operand. The target operand specifies either an absolute offset
(that is an offset from the base of the code segment) or a relative
offset (a signed displacement relative to the current

value of the instruction pointer in the EIP register). A near jump to a
relative offset of 8-bits (_rel8_) is referred to as a short jump. The
CS register is not changed on near and short jumps.

An absolute offset is specified indirectly in a general-purpose register
or a memory location (_r/m16_ or _r/m32_). The operand-size attribute
determines the size of the target operand (16 or 32 bits). Absolute
offsets are loaded directly into the EIP register. If the operand-size
attribute is 16, the upper two bytes of the EIP register are cleared,
resulting in a maximum instruction pointer size of 16 bits.

A relative offset (_rel8, rel16_, or _rel32_) is generally specified as
a label in assembly code, but at the machine code level, it is encoded
as a signed 8-, 16-, or 32-bit immediate value. This value is added to
the value in the EIP register. (Here, the EIP register contains the
address of the instruction following the JMP instruction). When using
relative offsets, the opcode (for short vs. near jumps) and the
operand-size attribute (for near relative jumps) determines the size of
the target operand (8, 16, or 32 bits).

FAR JUMPS IN REAL-ADDRESS OR VIRTUAL-8086 MODE. When executing a far
jump in real-address or virtual-8086 mode, the processor jumps to the
code segment and offset specified with the target operand. Here the
target operand specifies an absolute far address either directly with a
pointer (_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly with a memory location
(_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). With the pointer method, the segment and address
of the called procedure is encoded in the instruction, using a 4-byte
(16-bit operand size) or 6-byte (32-bit operand size) far address
immediate. With the indirect method, the target operand specifies a
memory location that contains a 4-byte (16-bit operand size) or 6-byte
(32-bit operand size) far address. The far address is loaded directly
into the CS and EIP registers. If the operand-size attribute is 16, the
upper two bytes of the EIP register are cleared.

FAR JUMPS IN PROTECTED MODE. When the processor is operating in
protected mode, the JMP instruction can be used to perform the following
three types of far jumps:

-   A far jump to a conforming or non-conforming code segment.
-   A far jump through a call gate.
-   A task switch.

(The JMP instruction cannot be used to perform inter-privilege-level far
jumps.)

In protected mode, the processor always uses the segment selector part
of the far address to access the corresponding descriptor in the GDT or
LDT. The descriptor type (code segment, call gate, task gate, or TSS)
and access rights determine the type of jump to be performed.

If the selected descriptor is for a code segment, a far jump to a code
segment at the same privilege level is performed. (If the selected code
segment is at a different privilege level and the code segment is
non-conforming, a general-protection exception is generated.) A far jump
to the same privilege level in protected mode is very similar to one
carried out in real-address or virtual-8086 mode. The target operand
specifies an absolute far address either directly with a pointer
(_ptr16:16_ or _ptr16:32_) or indirectly with a memory location
(_m16:16_ or _m16:32_). The operand-size attribute determines the size
of the offset (16 or 32 bits) in the far address. The new code segment
selector and its descriptor are loaded into CS register, and the offset
from the instruction is loaded into the EIP register. Note that a call
gate (described in the next paragraph) can also be used to perform far
call to a code segment at the same privilege level. Using this mechanism
provides an extra level of indirection and is the preferred method of
making jumps between 16-bit and 32-bit code segments.

When executing a far jump through a call gate, the segment selector
specified by the target operand identifies the call gate. (The offset
part of the target operand is ignored.) The processor then jumps to the
code segment specified in the call gate descriptor and begins executing
the instruction at the offset specified in the call gate. No stack
switch occurs. Here again, the target operand can specify the far
address of the call gate either directly with a pointer (_ptr16:16_ or
_ptr16:32_) or indirectly with a memory location (_m16:16_ or _m16:32_).

Executing a task switch with the JMP instruction is somewhat similar to
executing a jump through a call gate. Here the target operand specifies
the segment selector of the task gate for the task being switched to
(and the offset part of the target operand is ignored). The task gate in
turn points to the TSS for the task, which contains the segment
selectors for the task’s code and stack segments. The TSS also contains
the EIP value for the next instruction that was to be executed before
the task was suspended. This instruction pointer value is loaded into
the EIP register so that the task begins executing again at this next
instruction.

The JMP instruction can also specify the segment selector of the TSS
directly, which eliminates the indirection of the task gate. See Chapter
7 in _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 3A_, for detailed information on the mechanics of a task switch.

Note that when you execute at task switch with a JMP instruction, the
nested task flag (NT) is not set in the EFLAGS register and the new
TSS’s previous task link field is not loaded with the old task’s TSS
selector. A return to the previous task can thus not be carried out by
executing the IRET instruction. Switching tasks with the JMP instruction
differs in this regard from the CALL instruction which does set the NT
flag and save the previous task link information, allowing a return to
the calling task with an IRET instruction.

IN 64-BIT MODE. The instruction’s operation size is fixed at 64 bits. If
a selector points to a gate, then RIP equals the 64-bit displacement
taken from gate; else RIP equals the zero-extended offset from the far
pointer referenced in the instruction.

See the summary chart at the beginning of this section for encoding data
and limits.

INSTRUCTION ORDERING. Instructions following a far jump may be fetched
from memory before earlier instructions complete execution, but they
will not execute (even speculatively) until all instructions prior to
the far jump have completed execution (the later instructions may
execute before data stored by the earlier instructions have become
globally visible).

Certain situations may lead to the next sequential instruction after a
near indirect JMP being speculatively executed. If software needs to
prevent this (e.g., in order to prevent a speculative execution side
channel), then an INT3 or LFENCE instruction opcode can be placed after
the near indirect JMP in order to block speculative execution.


Operation ¶

    IF near jump
        IF 64-bit Mode
                THEN
                        IF near relative jump
                            THEN
                                tempRIP ← RIP + DEST; (* RIP is instruction following JMP instruction*)
                            ELSE (* Near absolute jump *)
                                tempRIP ← DEST;
                        FI;
                ELSE
                        IF near relative jump
                            THEN
                                tempEIP ← EIP + DEST; (* EIP is instruction following JMP instruction*)
                            ELSE (* Near absolute jump *)
                                tempEIP ← DEST;
                        FI;
        FI;
        IF (IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 or target mode = Compatibility mode)
        and tempEIP outside code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI
        IF 64-bit mode and tempRIP is not canonical
                THEN #GP(0);
        FI;
        IF OperandSize = 32
                    THEN
                        EIP ← tempEIP;
                    ELSE
                        IF OperandSize = 16
                                THEN (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                                        EIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH;
                                    ELSE (* OperandSize = 64)
                                        RIP ← tempRIP;
                        FI;
            FI;
    FI;
    IF far jump and (PE = 0 or (PE = 1 AND VM = 1)) (* Real-address or virtual-8086 mode *)
            THEN
                    tempEIP ← DEST(Offset); (* DEST is ptr16:32 or [m16:32] *)
                    IF tempEIP is beyond code segment limit
                        THEN #GP(0); FI;
                    CS ← DEST(segment selector); (* DEST is ptr16:32 or [m16:32] *)
                    IF OperandSize = 32
                            THEN
                                EIP ← tempEIP; (* DEST is ptr16:32 or [m16:32] *)
                            ELSE (* OperandSize = 16 *)
                                EIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH; (* Clear upper 16 bits *)
                    FI;
    FI;
    IF far jump and (PE = 1 and VM = 0)
    (* IA-32e mode or protected mode, not virtual-8086 mode *)
            THEN
                    IF effective address in the CS, DS, ES, FS, GS, or SS segment is illegal
                or segment selector in target operand NULL
                                THEN #GP(0); FI;
                    IF segment selector index not within descriptor table limits
                        THEN #GP(new selector); FI;
                Read type and access rights of segment descriptor;
                IF (EFER.LMA = 0)
                        THEN
                                IF segment type is not a conforming or nonconforming code
                                segment, call gate, task gate, or TSS
                                        THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
                        ELSE
                                IF segment type is not a conforming or nonconforming code segment
                                call gate
                                        THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
                FI;
                Depending on type and access rights:
                        GO TO CONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT;
                        GO TO NONCONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT;
                        GO TO CALL-GATE;
                        GO TO TASK-GATE;
                        GO TO TASK-STATE-SEGMENT;
            ELSE
                    #GP(segment selector);
    FI;
    CONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT:
        IF L-Bit = 1 and D-BIT = 1 and IA32_EFER.LMA = 1
                THEN GP(new code segment selector); FI;
            IF DPL > CPL
                THEN #GP(segment selector); FI;
            IF segment not present
                THEN #NP(segment selector); FI;
        tempEIP ← DEST(Offset);
        IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH;
        FI;
        IF (IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 or target mode = Compatibility mode) and
        tempEIP outside code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI
        IF tempEIP is non-canonical
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
        CS ← DEST[segment selector]; (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
        CS(RPL) ← CPL
        EIP ← tempEIP;
    END;
    NONCONFORMING-CODE-SEGMENT:
        IF L-Bit = 1 and D-BIT = 1 and IA32_EFER.LMA = 1
                THEN GP(new code segment selector); FI;
        IF (RPL > CPL) OR (DPL ≠ CPL)
                THEN #GP(code segment selector); FI;
        IF segment not present
                THEN #NP(segment selector); FI;
        tempEIP ← DEST(Offset);
        IF OperandSize = 16
                    THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH; FI;
        IF (IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 OR target mode = Compatibility mode)
        and tempEIP outside code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI
        IF tempEIP is non-canonical THEN #GP(0); FI;
        CS ← DEST[segment selector]; (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
        EIP ← tempEIP;
    END;
    CALL-GATE:
        IF call gate DPL < CPL
        or call gate DPL < call gate segment-selector RPL
                        THEN #GP(call gate selector); FI;
        IF call gate not present
                THEN #NP(call gate selector); FI;
        IF call gate code-segment selector is NULL
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
        IF call gate code-segment selector index outside descriptor table limits
                THEN #GP(code segment selector); FI;
        Read code segment descriptor;
        IF code-segment segment descriptor does not indicate a code segment
        or code-segment segment descriptor is conforming and DPL > CPL
        or code-segment segment descriptor is non-conforming and DPL ≠ CPL
                        THEN #GP(code segment selector); FI;
        IF IA32_EFER.LMA = 1 and (code-segment descriptor is not a 64-bit code segment
        or code-segment segment descriptor has both L-Bit and D-bit set)
                        THEN #GP(code segment selector); FI;
        IF code segment is not present
                THEN #NP(code-segment selector); FI;
            tempEIP ← DEST(Offset);
            IF GateSize = 16
                    THEN tempEIP ← tempEIP AND 0000FFFFH; FI;
        IF (IA32_EFER.LMA = 0 OR target mode = Compatibility mode) AND tempEIP
        outside code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI
        CS ← DEST[SegmentSelector); (* Segment descriptor information also loaded *)
        CS(RPL) ← CPL;
        EIP ← tempEIP;
    END;
    TASK-GATE:
        IF task gate DPL < CPL
        or task gate DPL < task gate segment-selector RPL
                THEN #GP(task gate selector); FI;
        IF task gate not present
                THEN #NP(gate selector); FI;
        Read the TSS segment selector in the task-gate descriptor;
        IF TSS segment selector local/global bit is set to local
        or index not within GDT limits
        or descriptor is not a TSS segment
        or TSS descriptor specifies that the TSS is busy
                THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
            IF TSS not present
                THEN #NP(TSS selector); FI;
            SWITCH-TASKS to TSS;
            IF EIP not within code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    END;
    TASK-STATE-SEGMENT:
        IF TSS DPL < CPL
        or TSS DPL < TSS segment-selector RPL
        or TSS descriptor indicates TSS not available
                THEN #GP(TSS selector); FI;
        IF TSS is not present
                THEN #NP(TSS selector); FI;
        SWITCH-TASKS to TSS;
        IF EIP not within code segment limit
                THEN #GP(0); FI;
    END;


Flags Affected ¶

All flags are affected if a task switch occurs; no flags are affected if
a task switch does not occur.


Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If offset in target operand, call gate, or TSS is beyond the code
segment limits.

If the segment selector in the destination operand, call gate, task
gate, or TSS is NULL.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register is used to access memory and it
contains a NULL segment selector.

#GP(selector)

If the segment selector index is outside descriptor table limits.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is not for a conforming-code segment,
nonconforming-code segment, call gate, task gate, or task state segment.

If the DPL for a nonconforming-code segment is not equal to the CPL

(When not using a call gate.) If the RPL for the segment’s segment
selector is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL for a conforming-code segment is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL from a call-gate, task-gate, or TSS segment descriptor is
less than the CPL or than the RPL of the call-gate, task-gate, or TSS’s
segment selector.

If the segment descriptor for selector in a call gate does not indicate
it is a code segment. If the segment descriptor for the segment selector
in a task gate does not indicate an available TSS. If the segment
selector for a TSS has its local/global bit set for local. If a TSS
segment descriptor specifies that the TSS is busy or not available.

#SS(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#NP

(selector) If the code segment being accessed is not present.

If call gate, task gate, or TSS not present.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3. (Only occurs when fetching
target from memory.)

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

#SS

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the target operand is beyond the code segment limits.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

#SS(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made. (Only occurs when fetching target from memory.)

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Compatibility Mode Exceptions ¶

Same as 64-bit mode exceptions.


64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If a memory address is non-canonical.

If target offset in destination operand is non-canonical.

If target offset in destination operand is beyond the new code segment
limit.

If the segment selector in the destination operand is NULL.

If the code segment selector in the 64-bit gate is NULL.

#GP(selector)

If the code segment or 64-bit call gate is outside descriptor table
limits.

If the code segment or 64-bit call gate overlaps non-canonical space.

If the segment descriptor from a 64-bit call gate is in non-canonical
space.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is not for a conforming-code segment,
nonconforming-code segment, 64-bit call gate.

If the segment descriptor pointed to by the segment selector in the
destination operand is a code segment, and has both the D-bit and the
L-bit set.

If the DPL for a nonconforming-code segment is not equal to the CPL, or
the RPL for the segment’s segment selector is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL for a conforming-code segment is greater than the CPL.

If the DPL from a 64-bit call-gate is less than the CPL or than the RPL
of the 64-bit call-gate.

If the upper type field of a 64-bit call gate is not 0x0.

If the segment selector from a 64-bit call gate is beyond the descriptor
table limits. If the code segment descriptor pointed to by the selector
in the 64-bit gate doesn't have the L-bit set and the D-bit clear. If
the segment descriptor for a segment selector from the 64-bit call gate
does not indicate it is a code segment. If the code segment is
non-conforming and CPL ≠ DPL. If the code segment is confirming and CPL
< DPL.

#NP(selector)

If a code segment or 64-bit call gate is not present.

#UD

(64-bit mode only) If a far jump is direct to an absolute address in
memory.

If the LOCK prefix is used.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
