-   Index
-   May 2019



MAXSS — RETURN MAXIMUM SCALAR SINGLE-PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUE


  Opcode/Instruction                                                 Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ------------------------------------------------------------------ ------- ------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  F3 0F 5F /r MAXSS xmm1, xmm2/m32                                   A       V/V                      SSE                  Return the maximum scalar single-precision floating-point value between xmm2/m32 and xmm1.
  VEX.LIG.F3.0F.WIG 5F /r VMAXSS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m32                B       V/V                      AVX                  Return the maximum scalar single-precision floating-point value between xmm3/m32 and xmm2.
  EVEX.LIG.F3.0F.W0 5F /r VMAXSS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m32{sae}   C       V/V                      AVX512F              Return the maximum scalar single-precision floating-point value between xmm3/m32 and xmm2.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type      Operand 1          Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       NA              ModRM:reg (r, w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA              NA
  B       NA              ModRM:reg (w)      VEX.vvvv        ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  C       Tuple1 Scalar   ModRM:reg (w)      EVEX.vvvv       ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  ------- --------------- ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------

Description ¶

Compares the low single-precision floating-point values in the first
source operand and the second source operand, and returns the maximum
value to the low doubleword of the destination operand.

If the values being compared are both 0.0s (of either sign), the value
in the second source operand is returned. If a value in the second
source operand is an SNaN, that SNaN is returned unchanged to the
destination (that is, a QNaN version of the SNaN is not returned).

If only one value is a NaN (SNaN or QNaN) for this instruction, the
second source operand, either a NaN or a valid floating-point value, is
written to the result. If instead of this behavior, it is required that
the NaN from either source operand be returned, the action of MAXSS can
be emulated using a sequence of instructions, such as, a comparison
followed by AND, ANDN and OR.

The second source operand can be an XMM register or a 32-bit memory
location. The first source and destination operands are XMM registers.

128-bit Legacy SSE version: The destination and first source operand are
the same. Bits (MAXVL:32) of the corresponding destination register
remain unchanged.

VEX.128 and EVEX encoded version: The first source operand is an xmm
register encoded by VEX.vvvv. Bits (127:32) of the XMM register
destination are copied from corresponding bits in the first source
operand. Bits (MAXVL:128) of the destination register are zeroed.

EVEX encoded version: The low doubleword element of the destination
operand is updated according to the writemask.

Software should ensure VMAXSS is encoded with VEX.L=0. Encoding VMAXSS
with VEX.L=1 may encounter unpredictable behavior across different
processor generations.

Operation ¶

    MAX(SRC1, SRC2)
    {
        IF ((SRC1 = 0.0) and (SRC2 = 0.0)) THEN DEST ←SRC2;
            ELSE IF (SRC1 = SNaN) THEN DEST ←SRC2; FI;
            ELSE IF (SRC2 = SNaN) THEN DEST ←SRC2; FI;
            ELSE IF (SRC1 > SRC2) THEN DEST ←SRC1;
            ELSE DEST←SRC2;
        FI;
    }

VMAXSS (EVEX encoded version) ¶

    IF k1[0] or *no writemask*
        THEN DEST[31:0]←MAX(SRC1[31:0], SRC2[31:0])
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[31:0] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                    THEN DEST[31:0]←0
            FI;
    FI;
    DEST[127:32] ← SRC1[127:32]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0

VMAXSS (VEX.128 encoded version) ¶

    DEST[31:0]←MAX(SRC1[31:0], SRC2[31:0])
    DEST[127:32] ←SRC1[127:32]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

MAXSS (128-bit Legacy SSE version) ¶

    DEST[31:0]←MAX(DEST[31:0], SRC[31:0])
    DEST[MAXVL-1:32] (Unmodified)

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent ¶

    VMAXSS __m128 _mm_max_round_ss( __m128 a, __m128 b, int);

    VMAXSS __m128 _mm_mask_max_round_ss(__m128 s, __mmask8 k, __m128 a, __m128 b, int);

    VMAXSS __m128 _mm_maskz_max_round_ss( __mmask8 k, __m128 a, __m128 b, int);

    MAXSS __m128 _mm_max_ss(__m128 a, __m128 b)

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions ¶

Invalid (Including QNaN Source Operand), Denormal

Other Exceptions ¶

Non-EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 3.

EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E3.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
