-   Index
-   May 2019

MOVD/MOVQ — Move Doubleword/Move Quadword

  Opcode/Instruction                            Op/ En   64/32-bit Mode   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  --------------------------------------------- -------- ---------------- -------------------- ----------------------------------------------
  NP 0F 6E /r MOVD mm, r/m32                    A        V/V              MMX                  Move doubleword from r/m32 to mm.
  NP REX.W + 0F 6E /r MOVQ mm, r/m64            A        V/N.E.           MMX                  Move quadword from r/m64 to mm.
  NP 0F 7E /r MOVD r/m32, mm                    B        V/V              MMX                  Move doubleword from mm to r/m32.
  NP REX.W + 0F 7E /r MOVQ r/m64, mm            B        V/N.E.           MMX                  Move quadword from mm to r/m64.
  66 0F 6E /r MOVD xmm, r/m32                   A        V/V              SSE2                 Move doubleword from r/m32 to xmm.
  66 REX.W 0F 6E /r MOVQ xmm, r/m64             A        V/N.E.           SSE2                 Move quadword from r/m64 to xmm.
  66 0F 7E /r MOVD r/m32, xmm                   B        V/V              SSE2                 Move doubleword from xmm register to r/m32.
  66 REX.W 0F 7E /r MOVQ r/m64, xmm             B        V/N.E.           SSE2                 Move quadword from xmm register to r/m64.
  VEX.128.66.0F.W0 6E / VMOVD xmm1, r32/m32     A        V/V              AVX                  Move doubleword from r/m32 to xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.W1 6E /r VMOVQ xmm1, r64/m64    A        V/N.E¹.          AVX                  Move quadword from r/m64 to xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.W0 7E /r VMOVD r32/m32, xmm1    B        V/V              AVX                  Move doubleword from xmm1 register to r/m32.
  VEX.128.66.0F.W1 7E /r VMOVQ r64/m64, xmm1    B        V/N.E¹.          AVX                  Move quadword from xmm1 register to r/m64.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W0 6E /r VMOVD xmm1, r32/m32   C        V/V              AVX512F              Move doubleword from r/m32 to xmm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 6E /r VMOVQ xmm1, r64/m64   C        V/N.E.¹          AVX512F              Move quadword from r/m64 to xmm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W0 7E /r VMOVD r32/m32, xmm1   D        V/V              AVX512F              Move doubleword from xmm1 register to r/m32.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 7E /r VMOVQ r64/m64, xmm1   D        V/N.E.¹          AVX512F              Move quadword from xmm1 register to r/m64.

  1. For this specific instruction, VEX.W/EVEX.W in non-64 bit is
  ignored; the instructions behaves as if the W0 version is used.

Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type      Operand 1       Operand 2       Operand 3   Operand 4
  A       NA              ModRM:reg (w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA
  B       NA              ModRM:r/m (w)   ModRM:reg (r)   NA          NA
  C       Tuple1 Scalar   ModRM:reg (w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA          NA
  D       Tuple1 Scalar   ModRM:r/m (w)   ModRM:reg (r)   NA          NA
  ------- --------------- --------------- --------------- ----------- -----------

Description ¶

Copies a doubleword from the source operand (second operand) to the
destination operand (first operand). The source and destination operands
can be general-purpose registers, MMX technology registers, XMM
registers, or 32-bit memory locations. This instruction can be used to
move a doubleword to and from the low doubleword of an MMX technology
register and a general-purpose register or a 32-bit memory location, or
to and from the low doubleword of an XMM register and a general-purpose
register or a 32-bit memory location. The instruction cannot be used to
transfer data between MMX technology registers, between XMM registers,
between general-purpose registers, or between memory locations.

When the destination operand is an MMX technology register, the source
operand is written to the low doubleword of the register, and the
register is zero-extended to 64 bits. When the destination operand is an
XMM register, the source operand is written to the low doubleword of the
register, and the register is zero-extended to 128 bits.

In 64-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits. Use
of the REX.R prefix permits access to additional registers (R8-R15). Use
of the REX.W prefix promotes operation to 64 bits. See the summary chart
at the beginning of this section for encoding data and limits.

MOVD/Q with XMM destination: ¶

Moves a dword/qword integer from the source operand and stores it in the
low 32/64-bits of the destination XMM register. The upper bits of the
destination are zeroed. The source operand can be a 32/64-bit register
or 32/64-bit memory location.

128-bit Legacy SSE version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding YMM
destination register remain unchanged. Qword operation requires the use
of REX.W=1.

VEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the destination register
are zeroed. Qword operation requires the use of VEX.W=1.

EVEX.128 encoded version: Bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the destination register
are zeroed. Qword operation requires the use of EVEX.W=1.

MOVD/Q with 32/64 reg/mem destination: ¶

Stores the low dword/qword of the source XMM register to 32/64-bit
memory location or general-purpose register. Qword operation requires
the use of REX.W=1, VEX.W=1, or EVEX.W=1.

Note: VEX.vvvv and EVEX.vvvv are reserved and must be 1111b otherwise
instructions will #UD.

If VMOVD or VMOVQ is encoded with VEX.L= 1, an attempt to execute the
instruction encoded with VEX.L= 1 will cause an #UD exception.

Operation ¶

MOVD (when destination operand is MMX technology register) ¶

    DEST[31:0] ← SRC;
    DEST[63:32] ← 00000000H;

MOVD (when destination operand is XMM register) ¶

    DEST[31:0] ← SRC;
    DEST[127:32] ← 000000000000000000000000H;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

MOVD (when source operand is MMX technology or XMM register) ¶

    DEST ← SRC[31:0];

VMOVD (VEX-encoded version when destination is an XMM register) ¶

    DEST[31:0] ← SRC[31:0]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:32] ← 0

MOVQ (when destination operand is XMM register) ¶

    DEST[63:0] ← SRC[63:0];
    DEST[127:64] ← 0000000000000000H;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

MOVQ (when destination operand is r/m64) ¶

    DEST[63:0] ← SRC[63:0];

MOVQ (when source operand is XMM register or r/m64) ¶

    DEST ← SRC[63:0];

VMOVQ (VEX-encoded version when destination is an XMM register) ¶

    DEST[63:0] ← SRC[63:0]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:64] ← 0

VMOVD (EVEX-encoded version when destination is an XMM register) ¶

    DEST[31:0] ← SRC[31:0]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:32] ← 0

VMOVQ (EVEX-encoded version when destination is an XMM register) ¶

    DEST[63:0] ← SRC[63:0]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:64] ← 0

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent ¶

    MOVD: __m64 _mm_cvtsi32_si64 (int i )

    MOVD: int _mm_cvtsi64_si32 ( __m64m )

    MOVD: __m128i _mm_cvtsi32_si128 (int a)

    MOVD: int _mm_cvtsi128_si32 ( __m128i a)

    MOVQ: __int64 _mm_cvtsi128_si64(__m128i);

    MOVQ: __m128i _mm_cvtsi64_si128(__int64);

    VMOVD __m128i _mm_cvtsi32_si128( int);

    VMOVD int _mm_cvtsi128_si32( __m128i );

    VMOVQ __m128i _mm_cvtsi64_si128 (__int64);

    VMOVQ __int64 _mm_cvtsi128_si64(__m128i );

    VMOVQ __m128i _mm_loadl_epi64( __m128i * s);

    VMOVQ void _mm_storel_epi64( __m128i * d, __m128i s);

Flags Affected ¶

None

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions ¶

None

Other Exceptions ¶

Non-EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 5.

EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type E9NF.

  ----- ---------------------------------------------
  #UD   If VEX.L = 1.
        If VEX.vvvv != 1111B or EVEX.vvvv != 1111B.
  ----- ---------------------------------------------

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
