-   Index
-   May 2019

PADDB/PADDW/PADDD/PADDQ — Add Packed Integers

  Opcode/Instruction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------------------ -------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NP 0F FC /r¹ PADDB mm, mm/m64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A       V/V                      MMX                  Add packed byte integers from mm/m64 and mm.
  NP 0F FD /r¹ PADDW mm, mm/m64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A       V/V                      MMX                  Add packed word integers from mm/m64 and mm.
  NP 0F FE /r¹ PADDD mm, mm/m64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A       V/V                      MMX                  Add packed doubleword integers from mm/m64 and mm.
  NP 0F D4 /r¹ PADDQ mm, mm/m64                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A       V/V                      MMX                  Add packed quadword integers from mm/m64 and mm.
  66 0F FC /r PADDB xmm1, xmm2/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A       V/V                      SSE2                 Add packed byte integers from xmm2/m128 and xmm1.
  66 0F FD /r PADDW xmm1, xmm2/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A       V/V                      SSE2                 Add packed word integers from xmm2/m128 and xmm1.
  66 0F FE /r PADDD xmm1, xmm2/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A       V/V                      SSE2                 Add packed doubleword integers from xmm2/m128 and xmm1.
  66 0F D4 /r PADDQ xmm1, xmm2/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A       V/V                      SSE2                 Add packed quadword integers from xmm2/m128 and xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG FC /r VPADDB xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX                  Add packed byte integers from xmm2, and xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG FD /r VPADDW xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX                  Add packed word integers from xmm2, xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG FE /r VPADDD xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX                  Add packed doubleword integers from xmm2, xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG D4 /r VPADDQ xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX                  Add packed quadword integers from xmm2, xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG FC /r VPADDB ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX2                 Add packed byte integers from ymm2, and ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG FD /r VPADDW ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX2                 Add packed word integers from ymm2, ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG FE /r VPADDD ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX2                 Add packed doubleword integers from ymm2, ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG D4 /r VPADDQ ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B       V/V                      AVX2                 Add packed quadword integers from ymm2, ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.WIG FC /r VPADDB xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512BW    Add packed byte integers from xmm2, and xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.WIG FD /r VPADDW xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512BW    Add packed word integers from xmm2, and xmm3/m128 and store in xmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W0 FE /r VPADDD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Add packed doubleword integers from xmm2, and xmm3/m128/m32bcst and store in xmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 D4 /r VPADDQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m64bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Add packed quadword integers from xmm2, and xmm3/m128/m64bcst and store in xmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.WIG FC /r VPADDB ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512BW    Add packed byte integers from ymm2, and ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.WIG FD /r VPADDW ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512BW    Add packed word integers from ymm2, and ymm3/m256 and store in ymm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W0 FE /r VPADDD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Add packed doubleword integers from ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst and store in ymm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W1 D4 /r VPADDQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Add packed quadword integers from ymm2, ymm3/m256/m64bcst and store in ymm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.WIG FC /r VPADDB zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512BW             Add packed byte integers from zmm2, and zmm3/m512 and store in zmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.WIG FD /r VPADDW zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C       V/V                      AVX512BW             Add packed word integers from zmm2, and zmm3/m512 and store in zmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W0 FE /r VPADDD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512F              Add packed doubleword integers from zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst and store in zmm1 using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W1 D4 /r VPADDQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D       V/V                      AVX512F              Add packed quadword integers from zmm2, zmm3/m512/m64bcst and store in zmm1 using writemask k1.
  NOTES: 1. See note in Section 2.4, “AVX and SSE Instruction Exception Specification” in the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 2A and Section 22.25.3, “Exception Conditions of Legacy SIMD Instructions Operating on MMX Registers” in the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3A.                                                         

Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type   Operand 1          Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       NA           ModRM:reg (r, w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA              NA
  B       NA           ModRM:reg (w)      VEX.vvvv (r)    ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  C       Full Mem     ModRM:reg (w)      EVEX.vvvv (r)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  D       Full         ModRM:reg (w)      EVEX.vvvv (r)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------

Description ¶

Performs a SIMD add of the packed integers from the source operand
(second operand) and the destination operand (first operand), and stores
the packed integer results in the destination operand. See Figure 9-4 in
the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
Volume 1, for an illustration of a SIMD operation. Overflow is handled
with wraparound, as described in the following paragraphs.

The PADDB and VPADDB instructions add packed byte integers from the
first source operand and second source operand and store the packed
integer results in the destination operand. When an individual result is
too large to be represented in 8 bits (overflow), the result is wrapped
around and the low 8 bits are written to the destination operand (that
is, the carry is ignored).

The PADDW and VPADDW instructions add packed word integers from the
first source operand and second source operand and store the packed
integer results in the destination operand. When an individual result is
too large to be represented in 16 bits (overflow), the result is wrapped
around and the low 16 bits are written to the destination operand (that
is, the carry is ignored).

The PADDD and VPADDD instructions add packed doubleword integers from
the first source operand and second source operand and store the packed
integer results in the destination operand. When an individual result is
too large to be represented in 32 bits (overflow), the result is wrapped
around and the low 32 bits are written to the destination operand (that
is, the carry is ignored).

The PADDQ and VPADDQ instructions add packed quadword integers from the
first source operand and second source operand and store the packed
integer results in the destination operand. When a quadword result is
too

large to be represented in 64 bits (overflow), the result is wrapped
around and the low 64 bits are written to the destination operand (that
is, the carry is ignored).

Note that the (V)PADDB, (V)PADDW, (V)PADDD and (V)PADDQ instructions can
operate on either unsigned or signed (two's complement notation) packed
integers; however, it does not set bits in the EFLAGS register to
indicate overflow and/or a carry. To prevent undetected overflow
conditions, software must control the ranges of values operated on.

EVEX encoded VPADDD/Q: The first source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM
register. The second source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128-bit memory location or a 512/256/128-bit vector broadcasted
from a 32/64-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
ZMM/YMM/XMM register updated according to the writemask.

EVEX encoded VPADDB/W: The first source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM
register. The second source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a
512/256/128-bit memory location. The destination operand is a
ZMM/YMM/XMM register updated according to the writemask.

VEX.256 encoded version: The first source operand is a YMM register. The
second source operand is a YMM register or a 256-bit memory location.
The destination operand is a YMM register. the upper bits (MAXVL-1:256)
of the destination are cleared.

VEX.128 encoded version: The first source operand is an XMM register.
The second source operand is an XMM register or 128-bit memory location.
The destination operand is an XMM register. The upper bits (MAXVL-1:128)
of the corresponding ZMM register destination are zeroed.

128-bit Legacy SSE version: The first source operand is an XMM register.
The second operand can be an XMM register or an 128-bit memory location.
The destination is not distinct from the first source XMM register and
the upper bits (MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding ZMM register
destination are unmodified.

Operation ¶

PADDB (with 64-bit operands) ¶

    DEST[7:0] ← DEST[7:0] + SRC[7:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 7th byte *)
    DEST[63:56] ← DEST[63:56] + SRC[63:56];

PADDW (with 64-bit operands) ¶

    DEST[15:0] ← DEST[15:0] + SRC[15:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd and 3th word *)
    DEST[63:48] ← DEST[63:48] + SRC[63:48];

PADDD (with 64-bit operands) ¶

    DEST[31:0] ← DEST[31:0] + SRC[31:0];
    DEST[63:32] ← DEST[63:32] + SRC[63:32];

PADDQ (with 64-Bit operands) ¶

    DEST[63:0] ← DEST[63:0] + SRC[63:0];

PADDB (Legacy SSE instruction) ¶

    DEST[7:0]← DEST[7:0] + SRC[7:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 15th byte *)
    DEST[127:120]← DEST[127:120] + SRC[127:120];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PADDW (Legacy SSE instruction) ¶

    DEST[15:0] ← DEST[15:0] + SRC[15:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 7th word *)
    DEST[127:112]← DEST[127:112] + SRC[127:112];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PADDD (Legacy SSE instruction) ¶

    DEST[31:0]← DEST[31:0] + SRC[31:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd and 3th doubleword *)
    DEST[127:96]← DEST[127:96] + SRC[127:96];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PADDQ (Legacy SSE instruction) ¶

    DEST[63:0]← DEST[63:0] + SRC[63:0];
    DEST[127:64]← DEST[127:64] + SRC[127:64];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

VPADDB (VEX.128 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[7:0]← SRC1[7:0] + SRC2[7:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 15th byte *)
    DEST[127:120]← SRC1[127:120] + SRC2[127:120];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0;

VPADDW (VEX.128 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[15:0] ← SRC1[15:0] + SRC2[15:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 7th word *)
    DEST[127:112]← SRC1[127:112] + SRC2[127:112];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0;

VPADDD (VEX.128 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[31:0]← SRC1[31:0] + SRC2[31:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd and 3th doubleword *)
    DEST[127:96] ← SRC1[127:96] + SRC2[127:96];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0;

VPADDQ (VEX.128 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[63:0]← SRC1[63:0] + SRC2[63:0];
    DEST[127:64] ← SRC1[127:64] + SRC2[127:64];
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0;

VPADDB (VEX.256 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[7:0]← SRC1[7:0] + SRC2[7:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 31th byte *)
    DEST[255:248]← SRC1[255:248] + SRC2[255:248];

VPADDW (VEX.256 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[15:0] ← SRC1[15:0] + SRC2[15:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd through 15th word *)
    DEST[255:240]← SRC1[255:240] + SRC2[255:240];

VPADDD (VEX.256 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[31:0]← SRC1[31:0] + SRC2[31:0];
    (* Repeat add operation for 2nd and 7th doubleword *)
    DEST[255:224] ← SRC1[255:224] + SRC2[255:224];

VPADDQ (VEX.256 encoded instruction) ¶

    DEST[63:0]← SRC1[63:0] + SRC2[63:0];
    DEST[127:64] ← SRC1[127:64] + SRC2[127:64];
    DEST[191:128]← SRC1[191:128] + SRC2[191:128];
    DEST[255:192] ← SRC1[255:192] + SRC2[255:192];

VPADDB (EVEX encoded versions) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (16, 128), (32, 256), (64, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 8
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+7:i]←SRC1[i+7:i] + SRC2[i+7:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+7:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+7:i] = 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPADDW (EVEX encoded versions) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (8, 128), (16, 256), (32, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 16
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+15:i]←SRC1[i+15:i] + SRC2[i+15:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+15:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+15:i] = 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPADDD (EVEX encoded versions) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[i+31:i]←SRC1[i+31:i] + SRC2[31:0]
                    ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←SRC1[i+31:i] + SRC2[i+31:i]
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPADDQ (EVEX encoded versions) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 64
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC2 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[i+63:i]←SRC1[i+63:i] + SRC2[63:0]
                    ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←SRC1[i+63:i] + SRC2[i+63:i]
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR;
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalents ¶

    VPADDB__m512i _mm512_add_epi8 ( __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDW__m512i _mm512_add_epi16 ( __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDB__m512i _mm512_mask_add_epi8 ( __m512i s, __mmask64 m, __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDW__m512i _mm512_mask_add_epi16 ( __m512i s, __mmask32 m, __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDB__m512i _mm512_maskz_add_epi8 (__mmask64 m, __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDW__m512i _mm512_maskz_add_epi16 (__mmask32 m, __m512i a, __m512i b)

    VPADDB__m256i _mm256_mask_add_epi8 (__m256i s, __mmask32 m, __m256i a, __m256i b)

    VPADDW__m256i _mm256_mask_add_epi16 (__m256i s, __mmask16 m, __m256i a, __m256i b)

    VPADDB__m256i _mm256_maskz_add_epi8 (__mmask32 m, __m256i a, __m256i b)

    VPADDW__m256i _mm256_maskz_add_epi16 (__mmask16 m, __m256i a, __m256i b)

    VPADDB__m128i _mm_mask_add_epi8 (__m128i s, __mmask16 m, __m128i a, __m128i b)

    VPADDW__m128i _mm_mask_add_epi16 (__m128i s, __mmask8 m, __m128i a, __m128i b)

    VPADDB__m128i _mm_maskz_add_epi8 (__mmask16 m, __m128i a, __m128i b)

    VPADDW__m128i _mm_maskz_add_epi16 (__mmask8 m, __m128i a, __m128i b)

    VPADDD __m512i _mm512_add_epi32( __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDD __m512i _mm512_mask_add_epi32(__m512i s, __mmask16 k, __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDD __m512i _mm512_maskz_add_epi32( __mmask16 k, __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDD __m256i _mm256_mask_add_epi32(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDD __m256i _mm256_maskz_add_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDD __m128i _mm_mask_add_epi32(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i b);

    VPADDD __m128i _mm_maskz_add_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i b);

    VPADDQ __m512i _mm512_add_epi64( __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDQ __m512i _mm512_mask_add_epi64(__m512i s, __mmask8 k, __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDQ __m512i _mm512_maskz_add_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m512i a, __m512i b);

    VPADDQ __m256i _mm256_mask_add_epi64(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDQ __m256i _mm256_maskz_add_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDQ __m128i _mm_mask_add_epi64(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i b);

    VPADDQ __m128i _mm_maskz_add_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i b);

    PADDB __m128i _mm_add_epi8 (__m128i a,__m128i b );

    PADDW __m128i _mm_add_epi16 ( __m128i a, __m128i b);

    PADDD __m128i _mm_add_epi32 ( __m128i a, __m128i b);

    PADDQ __m128i _mm_add_epi64 ( __m128i a, __m128i b);

    VPADDB __m256i _mm256_add_epi8 (__m256ia,__m256i b );

    VPADDW __m256i _mm256_add_epi16 ( __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDD __m256i _mm256_add_epi32 ( __m256i a, __m256i b);

    VPADDQ __m256i _mm256_add_epi64 ( __m256i a, __m256i b);

    PADDB __m64 _mm_add_pi8(__m64 m1, __m64 m2)

    PADDW __m64 _mm_add_pi16(__m64 m1, __m64 m2)

    PADDD __m64 _mm_add_pi32(__m64 m1, __m64 m2)

    PADDQ __m64 _mm_add_si64(__m64 m1, __m64 m2)

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions ¶

None

Other Exceptions ¶

Non-EVEX-encoded instruction, see Exceptions Type 4.

EVEX-encoded VPADDD/Q, see Exceptions Type E4.

EVEX-encoded VPADDB/W, see Exceptions Type E4.nb.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
