-   Index
-   May 2019

PSRLW/PSRLD/PSRLQ — Shift Packed Data Right Logical

  Opcode/Instruction                                     Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ------------------------------------------------------ ------- ------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NP 0F D1 /r¹ PSRLW mm, mm/m64                          A       V/V                      MMX                  Shift words in mm right by amount specified in mm/m64 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F D1 /r PSRLW xmm1, xmm2/m128                      A       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift words in xmm1 right by amount specified in xmm2/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  NP 0F 71 /2 ib¹ PSRLW mm, imm8                         B       V/V                      MMX                  Shift words in mm right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F 71 /2 ib PSRLW xmm1, imm8                        B       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift words in xmm1 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  NP 0F D2 /r¹ PSRLD mm, mm/m64                          A       V/V                      MMX                  Shift doublewords in mm right by amount specified in mm/m64 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F D2 /r PSRLD xmm1, xmm2/m128                      A       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift doublewords in xmm1 right by amount specified in xmm2 /m128 while shifting in 0s.
  NP 0F 72 /2 ib¹ PSRLD mm, imm8                         B       V/V                      MMX                  Shift doublewords in mm right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F 72 /2 ib PSRLD xmm1, imm8                        B       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift doublewords in xmm1 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  NP 0F D3 /r¹ PSRLQ mm, mm/m64                          A       V/V                      MMX                  Shift mm right by amount specified in mm/m64 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F D3 /r PSRLQ xmm1, xmm2/m128                      A       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift quadwords in xmm1 right by amount specified in xmm2/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  NP 0F 73 /2 ib¹ PSRLQ mm, imm8                         B       V/V                      MMX                  Shift mm right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  66 0F 73 /2 ib PSRLQ xmm1, imm8                        B       V/V                      SSE2                 Shift quadwords in xmm1 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG D1 /r VPSRLW xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128   C       V/V                      AVX                  Shift words in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG 71 /2 ib VPSRLW xmm1, xmm2, imm8     D       V/V                      AVX                  Shift words in xmm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG D2 /r VPSRLD xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128   C       V/V                      AVX                  Shift doublewords in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG 72 /2 ib VPSRLD xmm1, xmm2, imm8     D       V/V                      AVX                  Shift doublewords in xmm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG D3 /r VPSRLQ xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128   C       V/V                      AVX                  Shift quadwords in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.128.66.0F.WIG 73 /2 ib VPSRLQ xmm1, xmm2, imm8     D       V/V                      AVX                  Shift quadwords in xmm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG D1 /r VPSRLW ymm1, ymm2, xmm3/m128   C       V/V                      AVX2                 Shift words in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG 71 /2 ib VPSRLW ymm1, ymm2, imm8     D       V/V                      AVX2                 Shift words in ymm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- ----- ------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG D2 /r VPSRLD ymm1, ymm2, xmm3/m128                      C   V/V   AVX2                Shift doublewords in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG 72 /2 ib VPSRLD ymm1, ymm2, imm8                        D   V/V   AVX2                Shift doublewords in ymm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG D3 /r VPSRLQ ymm1, ymm2, xmm3/m128                      C   V/V   AVX2                Shift quadwords in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s.
  VEX.256.66.0F.WIG 73 /2 ib VPSRLQ ymm1, ymm2, imm8                        D   V/V   AVX2                Shift quadwords in ymm2 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.WIG D1 /r VPSRLW xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128             G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512BW   Shift words in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.WIG D1 /r VPSRLW ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, xmm3/m128             G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512BW   Shift words in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.WIG D1 /r VPSRLW zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, xmm3/m128             G   V/V   AVX512BW            Shift words in zmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.WIG 71 /2 ib VPSRLW xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128, imm8          E   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512BW   Shift words in xmm2/m128 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.WIG 71 /2 ib VPSRLW ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256, imm8          E   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512BW   Shift words in ymm2/m256 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.WIG 71 /2 ib VPSRLW zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512, imm8          E   V/V   AVX512BW            Shift words in zmm2/m512 right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W0 D2 /r VPSRLD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift doublewords in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W0 D2 /r VPSRLD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift doublewords in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W0 D2 /r VPSRLD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512F             Shift doublewords in zmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W0 72 /2 ib VPSRLD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m32bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift doublewords in xmm2/m128/m32bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W0 72 /2 ib VPSRLD ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m32bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift doublewords in ymm2/m256/m32bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W0 72 /2 ib VPSRLD zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m32bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512F             Shift doublewords in zmm2/m512/m32bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 D3 /r VPSRLQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift quadwords in xmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W1 D3 /r VPSRLQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift quadwords in ymm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W1 D3 /r VPSRLQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, xmm3/m128              G   V/V   AVX512F             Shift quadwords in zmm2 right by amount specified in xmm3/m128 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F.W1 73 /2 ib VPSRLQ xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2/m128/m64bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift quadwords in xmm2/m128/m64bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F.W1 73 /2 ib VPSRLQ ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2/m256/m64bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512VL AVX512F    Shift quadwords in ymm2/m256/m64bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F.W1 73 /2 ib VPSRLQ zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2/m512/m64bcst, imm8   F   V/V   AVX512F             Shift quadwords in zmm2/m512/m64bcst right by imm8 while shifting in 0s using writemask k1.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------- --- ----- ------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1. See note in Section 2.4, “AVX and SSE Instruction Exception
  Specification” in the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software
  Developer’s Manual, Volume 2A and Section 22.25.3, “Exception
  Conditions of Legacy SIMD Instructions Operating on MMX Registers” in
  the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual,
  Volume 3A.

Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type   Operand 1          Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       NA           ModRM:reg (r, w)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA              NA
  B       NA           ModRM:r/m (r, w)   imm8            NA              NA
  C       NA           ModRM:reg (w)      VEX.vvvv (r)    ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  D       NA           VEX.vvvv (w)       ModRM:r/m (r)   imm8            NA
  E       Full Mem     EVEX.vvvv (w)      ModRM:r/m (R)   Imm8            NA
  F       Full         EVEX.vvvv (w)      ModRM:r/m (R)   Imm8            NA
  G       Mem128       ModRM:reg (w)      VEX.vvvv (r)    ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------

Description ¶

Shifts the bits in the individual data elements (words, doublewords, or
quadword) in the destination operand (first operand) to the right by the
number of bits specified in the count operand (second operand). As the
bits in the data elements are shifted right, the empty high-order bits
are cleared (set to 0). If the value specified by the count operand is
greater than 15 (for words), 31 (for doublewords), or 63 (for a
quadword), then the destination operand is set to all 0s. Figure 4-19
gives an example of shifting words in a 64-bit operand.

Note that only the low 64-bits of a 128-bit count operand are checked to
compute the count.

[]

Figure 4-19. PSRLW, PSRLD, and PSRLQ Instruction Operation Using 64-bit
Operand

The (V)PSRLW instruction shifts each of the words in the destination
operand to the right by the number of bits specified in the count
operand; the (V)PSRLD instruction shifts each of the doublewords in the
destination operand; and the PSRLQ instruction shifts the quadword (or
quadwords) in the destination operand.

In 64-bit mode and not encoded with VEX/EVEX, using a REX prefix in the
form of REX.R permits this instruction to access additional registers
(XMM8-XMM15).

Legacy SSE instruction 64-bit operand: The destination operand is an MMX
technology register; the count operand can be either an MMX technology
register or an 64-bit memory location.

128-bit Legacy SSE version: The destination operand is an XMM register;
the count operand can be either an XMM register or a 128-bit memory
location, or an 8-bit immediate. If the count operand is a memory
address, 128 bits are loaded but the upper 64 bits are ignored. Bits
(MAXVL-1:128) of the corresponding YMM destination register remain
unchanged.

VEX.128 encoded version: The destination operand is an XMM register; the
count operand can be either an XMM register or a 128-bit memory
location, or an 8-bit immediate. If the count operand is a memory
address, 128 bits are loaded but the upper 64 bits are ignored. Bits
(MAXVL-1:128) of the destination YMM register are zeroed.

VEX.256 encoded version: The destination operand is a YMM register. The
source operand is a YMM register or a memory location. The count operand
can come either from an XMM register or a memory location or an 8-bit
immediate. Bits (MAXVL-1:256) of the corresponding ZMM register are
zeroed.

EVEX encoded versions: The destination operand is a ZMM register updated
according to the writemask. The count operand is either an 8-bit
immediate (the immediate count version) or an 8-bit value from an XMM
register or a memory location (the variable count version). For the
immediate count version, the source operand (the second operand) can be
a ZMM register, a 512-bit memory location or a 512-bit vector
broadcasted from a 32/64-bit memory location. For the variable count
version, the first source operand (the second operand) is a ZMM
register, the second source operand (the third operand, 8-bit variable
count) can be an XMM register or a memory location.

Note: In VEX/EVEX encoded versions of shifts with an immediate count,
vvvv of VEX/EVEX encode the destination register, and VEX.B/EVEX.B +
ModRM.r/m encodes the source register.

Note: For shifts with an immediate count (VEX.128.66.0F 71-73 /2, or
EVEX.128.66.0F 71-73 /2), VEX.vvvv/EVEX.vvvv encodes the destination
register.

Operation ¶

PSRLW (with 64-bit operand) ¶

    IF (COUNT > 15)
    THEN
        DEST[64:0] ← 0000000000000000H
    ELSE
        DEST[15:0] ← ZeroExtend(DEST[15:0] >> COUNT);
        (* Repeat shift operation for 2nd and 3rd words *)
        DEST[63:48] ← ZeroExtend(DEST[63:48] >> COUNT);
    FI;

PSRLD (with 64-bit operand) ¶

    IF (COUNT > 31)
    THEN
        DEST[64:0] ← 0000000000000000H
    ELSE
        DEST[31:0] ← ZeroExtend(DEST[31:0] >> COUNT);
        DEST[63:32] ← ZeroExtend(DEST[63:32] >> COUNT);
    FI;

PSRLQ (with 64-bit operand) ¶

        IF (COUNT > 63)
        THEN
            DEST[64:0] ← 0000000000000000H
        ELSE
            DEST ← ZeroExtend(DEST >> COUNT);
        FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS1(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ← COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 31)
    THEN
        DEST[31:0] ← 0
    ELSE
        DEST[31:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[31:0] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS1(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ← COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 63)
    THEN
        DEST[63:0] ← 0
    ELSE
        DEST[63:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[63:0] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 15)
    THEN
        DEST[255:0] ←0
    ELSE
        DEST[15:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[15:0] >> COUNT);
        (* Repeat shift operation for 2nd through 15th words *)
        DEST[255:240]←ZeroExtend(SRC[255:240] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 15)
    THEN
        DEST[127:0] ←00000000000000000000000000000000H
    ELSE
        DEST[15:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[15:0] >> COUNT);
        (* Repeat shift operation for 2nd through 7th words *)
        DEST[127:112]←ZeroExtend(SRC[127:112] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 31)
    THEN
        DEST[255:0] ←0
    ELSE
        DEST[31:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[31:0] >> COUNT);
        (* Repeat shift operation for 2nd through 3rd words *)
        DEST[255:224]←ZeroExtend(SRC[255:224] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 31)
    THEN
        DEST[127:0] ←00000000000000000000000000000000H
    ELSE
        DEST[31:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[31:0] >> COUNT);
        (* Repeat shift operation for 2nd through 3rd words *)
        DEST[127:96]←ZeroExtend(SRC[127:96] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 63)
    THEN
        DEST[255:0] ←0
    ELSE
        DEST[63:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[63:0] >> COUNT);
        DEST[127:64]←ZeroExtend(SRC[127:64] >> COUNT);
        DEST[191:128]←ZeroExtend(SRC[191:128] >> COUNT);
        DEST[255:192]←ZeroExtend(SRC[255:192] >> COUNT);
    FI;
    LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS(SRC, COUNT_SRC)
    COUNT ←COUNT_SRC[63:0];
    IF (COUNT > 63)
    THEN
        DEST[127:0] ←00000000000000000000000000000000H
    ELSE
        DEST[63:0]←ZeroExtend(SRC[63:0] >> COUNT);
        DEST[127:64]←ZeroExtend(SRC[127:64] >> COUNT);
    FI;

VPSRLW (EVEX versions, xmm/m128) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (8, 128), (16, 256), (32, 512)
    IF VL = 128
        TMP_DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_128b(SRC1[127:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 256
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 512
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
        TMP_DEST[511:256]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[511:256], SRC2)
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 16
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+15:i]←TMP_DEST[i+15:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking*
                            ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+15:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                                ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+15:i] = 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLW (EVEX versions, imm8) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (8, 128), (16, 256), (32, 512)
    IF VL = 128
        TMP_DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_128b(SRC1[127:0], imm8)
    FI;
    IF VL = 256
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], imm8)
    FI;
    IF VL = 512
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], imm8)
        TMP_DEST[511:256]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1[511:256], imm8)
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 16
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+15:i]←TMP_DEST[i+15:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking*
                            ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+15:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                                ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+15:i] = 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLW (ymm, ymm, xmm/m128) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLW (ymm, imm8) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS_256b(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLW (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

VPSRLW (xmm, imm8) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

PSRLW (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS(DEST, SRC)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PSRLW (xmm, imm8) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_WORDS(DEST, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

VPSRLD (EVEX versions, xmm/m128) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF VL = 128
        TMP_DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_128b(SRC1[127:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 256
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 512
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
        TMP_DEST[511:256]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC1[511:256], SRC2)
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←TMP_DEST[i+31:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking*
                            ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                                ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLD (EVEX versions, imm8) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC1 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[i+31:i]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS1(SRC1[31:0], imm8)
                    ELSE DEST[i+31:i]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS1(SRC1[i+31:i], imm8)
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLD (ymm, ymm, xmm/m128) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLD (ymm, imm8) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS_256b(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLD (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

VPSRLD (xmm, imm8) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

PSRLD (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS(DEST, SRC)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PSRLD (xmm, imm8) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_DWORDS(DEST, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

VPSRLQ (EVEX versions, xmm/m128) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
    TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
    TMP_DEST[511:256]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1[511:256], SRC2)
    IF VL = 128
        TMP_DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_128b(SRC1[127:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 256
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
    FI;
    IF VL = 512
        TMP_DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1[255:0], SRC2)
        TMP_DEST[511:256]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1[511:256], SRC2)
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 64
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+63:i]←TMP_DEST[i+63:i]
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking*
                            ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                                ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLQ (EVEX versions, imm8) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (2, 128), (4, 256), (8, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 64
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask* THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1) AND (SRC1 *is memory*)
                    THEN DEST[i+63:i]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS1(SRC1[63:0], imm8)
                    ELSE DEST[i+63:i]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS1(SRC1[i+63:i], imm8)
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+63:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE *zeroing-masking*
                            ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+63:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VPSRLQ (ymm, ymm, xmm/m128) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLQ (ymm, imm8) - VEX.256 encoding ¶

    DEST[255:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS_256b(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ←0;

VPSRLQ (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS(SRC1, SRC2)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

VPSRLQ (xmm, imm8) - VEX.128 encoding ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS(SRC1, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ←0

PSRLQ (xmm, xmm, xmm/m128) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS(DEST, SRC)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

PSRLQ (xmm, imm8) ¶

    DEST[127:0]←LOGICAL_RIGHT_SHIFT_QWORDS(DEST, imm8)
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] (Unmodified)

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalents ¶

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_srli_epi32(__m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_mask_srli_epi32(__m512i s, __mmask16 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_maskz_srli_epi32( __mmask16 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m256i _mm256_mask_srli_epi32(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m256i _mm256_maskz_srli_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m128i _mm_mask_srli_epi32(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m128i _mm_maskz_srli_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_srl_epi32(__m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_mask_srl_epi32(__m512i s, __mmask16 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m512i _mm512_maskz_srl_epi32( __mmask16 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m256i _mm256_mask_srl_epi32(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m256i _mm256_maskz_srl_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m128i _mm_mask_srl_epi32(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLD __m128i _mm_maskz_srl_epi32( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_srli_epi64(__m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_mask_srli_epi64(__m512i s, __mmask8 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_mask_srli_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m256i _mm256_mask_srli_epi64(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m256i _mm256_maskz_srli_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m128i _mm_mask_srli_epi64(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m128i _mm_maskz_srli_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_srl_epi64(__m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_mask_srl_epi64(__m512i s, __mmask8 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m512i _mm512_mask_srl_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m256i _mm256_mask_srl_epi64(__m256i s, __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m256i _mm256_maskz_srl_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m256i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m128i _mm_mask_srl_epi64(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLQ __m128i _mm_maskz_srl_epi64( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_srli_epi16(__m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_mask_srli_epi16(__m512i s, __mmask32 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_maskz_srli_epi16( __mmask32 k, __m512i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m256i _mm256_mask_srli_epi16(__m256i s, __mmask16 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m256i _mm256_maskz_srli_epi16( __mmask16 k, __m256i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m128i _mm_mask_srli_epi16(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m128i _mm_maskz_srli_epi16( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, unsigned int imm);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_srl_epi16(__m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_mask_srl_epi16(__m512i s, __mmask32 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m512i _mm512_maskz_srl_epi16( __mmask32 k, __m512i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m256i _mm256_mask_srl_epi16(__m256i s, __mmask16 k, __m256i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m256i _mm256_maskz_srl_epi16( __mmask8 k, __mmask16 a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m128i _mm_mask_srl_epi16(__m128i s, __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    VPSRLW __m128i _mm_maskz_srl_epi16( __mmask8 k, __m128i a, __m128i cnt);

    PSRLW:__m64 _mm_srli_pi16(__m64 m, int count)

    PSRLW:__m64 _mm_srl_pi16 (__m64 m, __m64 count)

    (V)PSRLW:__m128i _mm_srli_epi16 (__m128i m, int count)

    (V)PSRLW:__m128i _mm_srl_epi16 (__m128i m, __m128i count)

    VPSRLW:__m256i _mm256_srli_epi16 (__m256i m, int count)

    VPSRLW:__m256i _mm256_srl_epi16 (__m256i m, __m128i count)

    PSRLD:__m64 _mm_srli_pi32 (__m64 m, int count)

    PSRLD:__m64 _mm_srl_pi32 (__m64 m, __m64 count)

    (V)PSRLD:__m128i _mm_srli_epi32 (__m128i m, int count)

    (V)PSRLD:__m128i _mm_srl_epi32 (__m128i m, __m128i count)

    VPSRLD:__m256i _mm256_srli_epi32 (__m256i m, int count)

    VPSRLD:__m256i _mm256_srl_epi32 (__m256i m, __m128i count)

    PSRLQ:__m64 _mm_srli_si64 (__m64 m, int count)

    PSRLQ:__m64 _mm_srl_si64 (__m64 m, __m64 count)

    (V)PSRLQ:__m128i _mm_srli_epi64 (__m128i m, int count)

    (V)PSRLQ:__m128i _mm_srl_epi64 (__m128i m, __m128i count)

    VPSRLQ:__m256i _mm256_srli_epi64 (__m256i m, int count)

    VPSRLQ:__m256i _mm256_srl_epi64 (__m256i m, __m128i count)

Flags Affected ¶

None.

Numeric Exceptions ¶

None.

Other Exceptions ¶

VEX-encoded instructions:

Syntax with RM/RVM operand encoding (A/C in the operand encoding table),
see Exceptions Type 4.

Syntax with MI/VMI operand encoding (B/D in the operand encoding table),
see Exceptions Type 7.

EVEX-encoded VPSRLW (E in the operand encoding table), see Exceptions
Type E4NF.nb.

EVEX-encoded VPSRLD/Q:

Syntax with Mem128 tuple type (G in the operand encoding table), see
Exceptions Type E4NF.nb.

Syntax with Full tuple type (F in the operand encoding table), see
Exceptions Type E4.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
