-   Index
-   May 2019



RDPMC — READ PERFORMANCE-MONITORING COUNTERS


  Opcode*   Instruction   Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  --------- ------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------
  0F 33     RDPMC         ZO      Valid         Valid             Read performance-monitoring counter specified by ECX into EDX:EAX.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1   Operand 2   Operand 3   Operand 4
  ZO      NA          NA          NA          NA
  ------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------


Description ¶

The EAX register is loaded with the low-order 32 bits. The EDX register
is loaded with the supported high-order bits of the counter. The number
of high-order bits loaded into EDX is implementation specific on
processors that do no support architectural performance monitoring. The
width of fixed-function and general-purpose performance counters on
processors supporting architectural performance monitoring are reported
by CPUID 0AH leaf. See below for the treatment of the EDX register for
“fast” reads.

The ECX register specifies the counter type (if the processor supports
architectural performance monitoring) and counter index. Counter type is
specified in ECX[30] to select one of two type of performance counters.
If the processor does not support architectural performance monitoring,
ECX[30:0] specifies the counter index; otherwise ECX[29:0] specifies the
index relative to the base of each counter type. ECX[31] selects “fast”
read mode if supported. The two counter types are:

-   General-purpose or special-purpose performance counters are
    specified with ECX[30] = 0: The number of general-purpose
    performance counters on processor supporting architectural
    performance monitoring are reported by CPUID 0AH leaf. The
    availability of special-purpose counters, as well as the number of
    general-purpose counters if the processor does not support
    architectural performance monitoring, is model specific; see Chapter
    18, “Performance Monitoring” of _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures
    Software Developer’s Manual,_ _Volume 3B_.
-   Fixed-function performance counters are specified with ECX[30] = 1.
    The number fixed-function performance counters is enumerated by
    CPUID 0AH leaf. See Chapter 18, “Performance Monitoring” of _Intel®
    64 and IA-32_ _Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume
    3B_. This counter type is selected if ECX[30] is set.

The width of fixed-function performance counters and general-purpose
performance counters on processors supporting architectural performance
monitoring are reported by CPUID 0AH leaf. The width of general-purpose
performance counters are 40-bits for processors that do not support
architectural performance monitoring counters. The width of
special-purpose performance counters are implementation specific.

When in protected or virtual 8086 mode, the performance-monitoring
counters enabled (PCE) flag in register CR4 restricts the use of the
RDPMC instruction as follows. When the PCE flag is set, the RDPMC
instruction can be executed at any privilege level; when the flag is
clear, the instruction can only be executed at privilege level 0. (When
in real-address mode, the RDPMC instruction is always enabled.)

The performance-monitoring counters can also be read with the RDMSR
instruction, when executing at privilege level 0.

The performance-monitoring counters are event counters that can be
programmed to count events such as the number of instructions decoded,
number of interrupts received, or number of cache loads. Chapter 19,
“Performance Monitoring Events,” in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3B_, lists the events
that can be counted for various processors in the Intel 64 and IA-32
architecture families.

The RDPMC instruction is not a serializing instruction; that is, it does
not imply that all the events caused by the preceding instructions have
been completed or that events caused by subsequent instructions have not
begun. If an exact event count is desired, software must insert a
serializing instruction (such as the CPUID instruction) before and/or
after the RDPMC instruction.

Performing back-to-back fast reads are not guaranteed to be monotonic.
To guarantee monotonicity on back-to-back reads, a serializing
instruction must be placed between the two RDPMC instructions.

The RDPMC instruction can execute in 16-bit addressing mode or
virtual-8086 mode; however, the full contents of the ECX register are
used to select the counter, and the event count is stored in the full
EAX and EDX registers. The RDPMC instruction was introduced into the
IA-32 Architecture in the Pentium Pro processor and the Pentium
processor with MMX technology. The earlier Pentium processors have
performance-monitoring counters, but they must be read with the RDMSR
instruction.


Operation ¶

    MSCB = Most Significant Counter Bit (* Model-specific *)
    IF (((CR4.PCE = 1) or (CPL = 0) or (CR0.PE = 0)) and (ECX indicates a supported counter))
        THEN
            EAX ← counter[31:0];
            EDX ← ZeroExtend(counter[MSCB:32]);
        ELSE (* ECX is not valid or CR4.PCE is 0 and CPL is 1, 2, or 3 and CR0.PE is 1 *)
            #GP(0);
    FI;


Flags Affected ¶

None.


Protected Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0 and the PCE flag in the CR4
register is clear.

If an invalid performance counter index is specified.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions ¶

  ----- -------------------------------------------------------
  #GP   If an invalid performance counter index is specified.
  #UD   If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----- -------------------------------------------------------


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the PCE flag in the CR4 register is clear.

If an invalid performance counter index is specified.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Compatibility Mode Exceptions ¶

Same exceptions as in protected mode.


64-Bit Mode Exceptions ¶

#GP(0)

If the current privilege level is not 0 and the PCE flag in the CR4
register is clear.

If an invalid performance counter index is specified.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
