-   Index
-   December 2017



SAL/SAR/SHL/SHR — SHIFT


  Opcode***            Instruction          Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  -------------------- -------------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- --------------------------------------------
  D0 /4                SAL _r/m8_, 1        M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  REX + D0 /4          SAL _r/m8**_, 1      M1      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  D2 /4                SAL _r/m8_, CL       MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  REX + D2 /4          SAL _r/m8**_, CL     MC      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  C0 /4 _ib_           SAL _r/m8, imm8_     MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX + C0 /4 _ib_     SAL _r/m8**, imm8_   MI      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /4                SAL _r/m16_, 1       M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, once.
  D3 /4                SAL _r/m16_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /4 _ib_           SAL _r/m16, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /4                SAL _r/m32_, 1       M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, once.
  REX.W + D1 /4        SAL _r/m64_, 1       M1      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, once.
  D3 /4                SAL _r/m32_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, CL times.
  REX.W + D3 /4        SAL _r/m64_, CL      MC      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /4 _ib_           SAL _r/m32, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX.W + C1 /4 _ib_   SAL _r/m64, imm8_    MI      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D0 /7                SAR _r/m8_, 1        M1      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  REX + D0 /7          SAR _r/m8**_, 1      M1      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  D2 /7                SAR _r/m8_, CL       MC      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  REX + D2 /7          SAR _r/m8**_, CL     MC      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  C0 /7 _ib_           SAR _r/m8, imm8_     MI      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ time.
  REX + C0 /7 _ib_     SAR _r/m8**, imm8_   MI      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /7                SAR _r/m16_,1        M1      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m16_ by 2, once.
  D3 /7                SAR _r/m16_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m16_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /7 _ib_           SAR _r/m16, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m16_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /7                SAR _r/m32_, 1       M1      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m32_ by 2, once.
  REX.W + D1 /7        SAR _r/m64_, 1       M1      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m64_ by 2, once.
  D3 /7                SAR _r/m32_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m32_ by 2, CL times.
  REX.W + D3 /7        SAR _r/m64_, CL      MC      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m64_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /7 _ib_           SAR _r/m32, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Signed divide* _r/m32_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX.W + C1 /7 _ib_   SAR _r/m64, imm8_    MI      Valid         N.E.              Signed divide* _r/m64_ by 2, _imm8_ times
  D0 /4                SHL _r/m8_, 1        M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  REX + D0 /4          SHL _r/m8**_, 1      M1      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  D2 /4                SHL _r/m8_, CL       MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  REX + D2 /4          SHL _r/m8**_, CL     MC      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  C0 /4 _ib_           SHL _r/m8, imm8_     MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX + C0 /4 _ib_     SHL _r/m8**, imm8_   MI      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /4                SHL _r/m16_,1        M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, once.
  D3 /4                SHL _r/m16_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /4 _ib_           SHL _r/m16, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m16_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /4                SHL _r/m32_,1        M1      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, once.

  Opcode               Instruction          Op/En   64-Bit Mode   Compat/Leg Mode   Description
  -------------------- -------------------- ------- ------------- ----------------- ---------------------------------------------
  REX.W + D1 /4        SHL _r/m64_,1        M1      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, once.
  D3 /4                SHL _r/m32_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, CL times.
  REX.W + D3 /4        SHL _r/m64_, CL      MC      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /4 _ib_           SHL _r/m32, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Multiply _r/m32_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX.W + C1 /4 _ib_   SHL _r/m64, imm8_    MI      Valid         N.E.              Multiply _r/m64_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D0 /5                SHR _r/m8_,1         M1      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  REX + D0 /5          SHR _r/m8**_, 1      M1      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, once.
  D2 /5                SHR _r/m8_, CL       MC      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  REX + D2 /5          SHR _r/m8**_, CL     MC      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, CL times.
  C0 /5 _ib_           SHR _r/m8, imm8_     MI      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX + C0 /5 _ib_     SHR _r/m8**, imm8_   MI      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m8_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /5                SHR _r/m16_, 1       M1      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m16_ by 2, once.
  D3 /5                SHR _r/m16_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m16_ by 2, CL times
  C1 /5 _ib_           SHR _r/m16, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m16_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  D1 /5                SHR _r/m32_, 1       M1      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m32_ by 2, once.
  REX.W + D1 /5        SHR _r/m64_, 1       M1      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m64_ by 2, once.
  D3 /5                SHR _r/m32_, CL      MC      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m32_ by 2, CL times.
  REX.W + D3 /5        SHR _r/m64_, CL      MC      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m64_ by 2, CL times.
  C1 /5 _ib_           SHR _r/m32, imm8_    MI      Valid         Valid             Unsigned divide _r/m32_ by 2, _imm8_ times.
  REX.W + C1 /5 _ib_   SHR _r/m64, imm8_    MI      Valid         N.E.              Unsigned divide _r/m64_ by 2, _imm8_ times.

  * NotthesameformofdivisionasIDIV;roundingistowardnegativeinfinity.

  ** In 64-bit mode, r/m8 can not be encoded to access the following
  byte registers if a REX prefix is used: AH, BH, CH, DH.

  ***See IA-32 Architecture Compatibility section below.


Instruction Operand Encoding¶

  ------- ------------------ ----------- ----------- -----------
  Op/En   Operand 1          Operand 2   Operand 3   Operand 4
  M1      ModRM:r/m (r, w)   1           NA          NA
  MC      ModRM:r/m (r, w)   CL          NA          NA
  MI      ModRM:r/m (r, w)   imm8        NA          NA
  ------- ------------------ ----------- ----------- -----------


Description¶

Shifts the bits in the first operand (destination operand) to the left
or right by the number of bits specified in the second operand (count
operand). Bits shifted beyond the destination operand boundary are first
shifted into the CF flag, then discarded. At the end of the shift
operation, the CF flag contains the last bit shifted out of the
destination operand.

The destination operand can be a register or a memory location. The
count operand can be an immediate value or the CL register. The count is
masked to 5 bits (or 6 bits if in 64-bit mode and REX.W is used). The
count range is limited to 0 to 31 (or 63 if 64-bit mode and REX.W is
used). A special opcode encoding is provided for a count of 1.

The shift arithmetic left (SAL) and shift logical left (SHL)
instructions perform the same operation; they shift the bits in the
destination operand to the left (toward more significant bit locations).
For each shift count, the most significant bit of the destination
operand is shifted into the CF flag, and the least significant bit is
cleared (see Figure 7-7 in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures
Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1_).

The shift arithmetic right (SAR) and shift logical right (SHR)
instructions shift the bits of the destination operand to the right
(toward less significant bit locations). For each shift count, the least
significant bit of the destination operand is shifted into the CF flag,
and the most significant bit is either set or cleared depending on the
instruction type. The SHR instruction clears the most significant bit
(see Figure 7-8 in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software
Developer’s Manual, Volume 1_); the SAR instruction sets or clears the
most significant bit to correspond to the sign (most significant bit) of
the original value in the destination operand. In effect, the SAR
instruction fills the empty bit position’s shifted value with the sign
of the unshifted value (see Figure 7-9 in the _Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 1_).

The SAR and SHR instructions can be used to perform signed or unsigned
division, respectively, of the destination operand by powers of 2. For
example, using the SAR instruction to shift a signed integer 1 bit to
the right divides the value by 2.

Using the SAR instruction to perform a division operation does not
produce the same result as the IDIV instruction. The quotient from the
IDIV instruction is rounded toward zero, whereas the “quotient” of the
SAR instruction is rounded toward negative infinity. This difference is
apparent only for negative numbers. For example, when the IDIV
instruction is used to divide -9 by 4, the result is -2 with a remainder
of -1. If the SAR instruction is used to shift -9 right by two bits, the
result is -3 and the “remainder” is +3; however, the SAR instruction
stores only the most significant bit of the remainder (in the CF flag).

The OF flag is affected only on 1-bit shifts. For left shifts, the OF
flag is set to 0 if the most-significant bit of the result is the same
as the CF flag (that is, the top two bits of the original operand were
the same); otherwise, it is set to 1. For the SAR instruction, the OF
flag is cleared for all 1-bit shifts. For the SHR instruction, the OF
flag is set to the most-significant bit of the original operand.

In 64-bit mode, the instruction’s default operation size is 32 bits and
the mask width for CL is 5 bits. Using a REX prefix in the form of REX.R
permits access to additional registers (R8-R15). Using a REX prefix in
the form of REX.W promotes operation to 64-bits and sets the mask width
for CL to 6 bits. See the summary chart at the beginning of this section
for encoding data and limits.


IA-32 Architecture Compatibility¶

The 8086 does not mask the shift count. However, all other IA-32
processors (starting with the Intel 286 processor) do mask the shift
count to 5 bits, resulting in a maximum count of 31. This masking is
done in all operating modes (including the virtual-8086 mode) to reduce
the maximum execution time of the instructions.


Operation¶

    IF 64-Bit Mode and using REX.W
        THEN
            countMASK ← 3FH;
        ELSE
            countMASK ← 1FH;
    FI
    tempCOUNT ← (COUNT AND countMASK);
    tempDEST ← DEST;
    WHILE (tempCOUNT ≠ 0)
    DO
        IF instruction is SAL or SHL
            THEN
                CF ← MSB(DEST);
            ELSE (* Instruction is SAR or SHR *)
                CF ← LSB(DEST);
        FI;
        IF instruction is SAL or SHL
            THEN
                DEST ← DEST ∗ 2;
            ELSE
                IF instruction is SAR
                    THEN
                        DEST ← DEST / 2; (* Signed divide, rounding toward negative infinity *)
                    ELSE (* Instruction is SHR *)
                        DEST ← DEST / 2 ; (* Unsigned divide *)
                FI;
        FI;
        tempCOUNT ← tempCOUNT – 1;
    OD;
    (* Determine overflow for the various instructions *)
    IF (COUNT and countMASK) = 1
        THEN
            IF instruction is SAL or SHL
                THEN
                    OF ← MSB(DEST) XOR CF;
                ELSE
                    IF instruction is SAR
                        THEN
                            OF ← 0;
                        ELSE (* Instruction is SHR *)
                            OF ← MSB(tempDEST);
                    FI;
            FI;
        ELSE IF (COUNT AND countMASK) = 0
            THEN
                All flags unchanged;
            ELSE (* COUNT not 1 or 0 *)
                OF ← undefined;
        FI;
    FI;


Flags Affected¶

The CF flag contains the value of the last bit shifted out of the
destination operand; it is undefined for SHL and SHR instructions where
the count is greater than or equal to the size (in bits) of the
destination operand. The OF flag is affected only for 1-bit shifts (see
“Description” above); otherwise, it is undefined. The SF, ZF, and PF
flags are set according to the result. If the count is 0, the flags are
not affected. For a non-zero count, the AF flag is undefined.


Protected Mode Exceptions¶

#GP(0)

If the destination is located in a non-writable segment.

If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or
GS segment limit.

If the DS, ES, FS, or GS register contains a NULL segment selector.

#SS(0)

If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.

#PF(fault-code)

If a page fault occurs.

#AC(0)

If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is
made while the current privilege level is 3.

#UD

If the LOCK prefix is used.


Real-Address Mode Exceptions¶

  ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP   If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
  #SS   If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
  #UD   If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Virtual-8086 Mode Exceptions¶

  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #GP(0)            If a memory operand effective address is outside the CS, DS, ES, FS, or GS segment limit.
  #SS(0)            If a memory operand effective address is outside the SS segment limit.
  #PF(fault-code)   If a page fault occurs.
  #AC(0)            If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made.
  #UD               If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Compatibility Mode Exceptions¶

Same exceptions as in protected mode.


64-Bit Mode Exceptions¶

  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  #SS(0)            If a memory address referencing the SS segment is in a non-canonical form.
  #GP(0)            If the memory address is in a non-canonical form.
  #PF(fault-code)   If a page fault occurs.
  #AC(0)            If alignment checking is enabled and an unaligned memory reference is made while the current privilege level is 3.
  #UD               If the LOCK prefix is used.
  ----------------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
