-   Index
-   December 2017



VFMADD132PS/VFMADD213PS/VFMADD231PS — FUSED MULTIPLY-ADD OF PACKED SINGLE- PRECISION FLOATING-POINT VALUES


  Opcode/Instruction                                                                    Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  VEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 98 /r VFMADD132PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm3/mem, add to xmm2 and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 A8 /r VFMADD213PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm2, add to xmm3/mem and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 B8 /r VFMADD231PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm2 and xmm3/mem, add to xmm1 and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.W0 98 /r VFMADD132PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm3/mem, add to ymm2 and put result in ymm1.
  VEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.W0 A8 /r VFMADD213PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm2, add to ymm3/mem and put result in ymm1.
  VEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.0 B8 /r VFMADD231PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                         A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm2 and ymm3/mem, add to ymm1 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 98 /r VFMADD132PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst, add to xmm2 and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 A8 /r VFMADD213PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm2, add to xmm3/m128/m32bcst and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.NDS.128.66.0F38.W0 B8 /r VFMADD231PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst, add to xmm1 and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.W0 98 /r VFMADD132PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst, add to ymm2 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.W0 A8 /r VFMADD213PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm2, add to ymm3/m256/m32bcst and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.NDS.256.66.0F38.W0 B8 /r VFMADD231PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst, add to ymm1 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.NDS.512.66.0F38.W0 98 /r VFMADD132PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm1 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst, add to zmm2 and put result in zmm1.
  EVEX.NDS.512.66.0F38.W0 A8 /r VFMADD213PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm1 and zmm2, add to zmm3/m512/m32bcst and put result in zmm1.
  EVEX.NDS.512.66.0F38.W0 B8 /r VFMADD231PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst, add to zmm1 and put result in zmm1.


Instruction Operand Encoding¶

  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type   Operand 1          Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       NA           ModRM:reg (r, w)   VEX.vvvv (r)    ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  B       Full         ModRM:reg (r, w)   EVEX.vvvv (r)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------

Description¶

Performs a set of SIMD multiply-add computation on packed
single-precision floating-point values using three source operands and
writes the multiply-add results in the destination operand. The
destination operand is also the first source operand. The second operand
must be a SIMD register. The third source operand can be a SIMD register
or a memory location.

VFMADD132PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the first source operand to
the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values
in the third source operand, adds the infinite precision intermediate
result to the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values in the second source operand, performs rounding
and stores the resulting four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values to the destination operand (first source operand).

VFMADD213PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the second source operand to
the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values
in the first source operand, adds the infinite precision intermediate
result to the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values in the third source operand, performs rounding and
stores the resulting the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values to the destination operand (first source operand).

VFMADD231PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the second source operand to
the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values
in the third source operand, adds the infinite precision intermediate
result to the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values in the first source operand, performs rounding and
stores the resulting four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values to the destination operand (first source operand).

EVEX encoded versions: The destination operand (also first source
operand) is a ZMM register and encoded in reg_field. The second source
operand is a ZMM register and encoded in EVEX.vvvv. The third source
operand is a ZMM register, a 512-bit memory location, or a 512-bit
vector broadcasted from a 32-bit memory location. The destination
operand is conditionally updated with write mask k1.

VEX.256 encoded version: The destination operand (also first source
operand) is a YMM register and encoded in reg_field. The second source
operand is a YMM register and encoded in VEX.vvvv. The third source
operand is a YMM register or a 256-bit memory location and encoded in
rm_field.

VEX.128 encoded version: The destination operand (also first source
operand) is a XMM register and encoded in reg_field. The second source
operand is a XMM register and encoded in VEX.vvvv. The third source
operand is a XMM register or a 128-bit memory location and encoded in
rm_field. The upper 128 bits of the YMM destination register are zeroed.

Operation¶

    In the operations below, “*” and “+” symbols represent multiplication and addition with infinite precision inputs and outputs (no
    rounding).

VFMADD132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←4
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 8
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR(DEST[n+31:n]*SRC3[n+31:n] + SRC2[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFMADD213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←4
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 8
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[n+31:n]*DEST[n+31:n] + SRC3[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFMADD231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←4
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 8
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[n+31:n]*SRC3[n+31:n] + DEST[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFMADD132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i] + SRC2[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFMADD132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[31:0] + SRC2[i+31:i])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i] + SRC2[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFMADD213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i] + SRC3[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFMADD213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i] + SRC3[31:0])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i] + SRC3[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFMADD231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i] + DEST[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFMADD231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source)¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[31:0] + DEST[i+31:i])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i] + DEST[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent¶

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_fmadd_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_fmadd_round_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask_fmadd_ps(__m512 a, __mmask16 k, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_maskz_fmadd_ps(__mmask16 k, __m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask3_fmadd_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, __mmask16 k);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask_fmadd_round_ps(__m512 a, __mmask16 k, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_maskz_fmadd_round_ps(__mmask16 k, __m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask3_fmadd_round_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, __mmask16 k, int r);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m256 _mm256_mask_fmadd_ps(__m256 a, __mmask8 k, __m256 b, __m256 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m256 _mm256_maskz_fmadd_ps(__mmask8 k, __m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m256 _mm256_mask3_fmadd_ps(__m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c, __mmask8 k);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m128 _mm_mask_fmadd_ps(__m128 a, __mmask8 k, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m128 _mm_maskz_fmadd_ps(__mmask8 k, __m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m128 _mm_mask3_fmadd_ps(__m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c, __mmask8 k);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m128 _mm_fmadd_ps (__m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFMADDxxxPS __m256 _mm256_fmadd_ps (__m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c);

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions¶

Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Precision, Denormal

Other Exceptions¶

VEX-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 2.

EVEX-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E2.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
