-   Index
-   May 2019

VFNMSUB132PS/VFNMSUB213PS/VFNMSUB231PS — Fused Negative Multiply-Subtract of Packed Single-Precision Floating-Point Values

  Opcode/Instruction                                                                 Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------------------ -------------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  VEX.128.66.0F38.W0 9E /r VFNMSUB132PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm3/mem, negate the multiplication result and subtract xmm2 and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F38.W0 AE /r VFNMSUB213PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm2, negate the multiplication result and subtract xmm3/mem and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.128.66.0F38.W0 BE /r VFNMSUB231PS xmm1, xmm2, xmm3/m128                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm2 and xmm3/mem, negate the multiplication result and subtract xmm1 and put result in xmm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F38.W0 9E /r VFNMSUB132PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm3/mem, negate the multiplication result and subtract ymm2 and put result in ymm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F38.W0 AE /r VFNMSUB213PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                        A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm2, negate the multiplication result and subtract ymm3/mem and put result in ymm1.
  VEX.256.66.0F38.0 BE /r VFNMSUB231PS ymm1, ymm2, ymm3/m256                         A       V/V                      FMA                  Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm2 and ymm3/mem, negate the multiplication result and subtract ymm1 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 9E /r VFNMSUB132PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result and subtract xmm2 and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 AE /r VFNMSUB213PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm1 and xmm2, negate the multiplication result and subtract xmm3/m128/m32bcst and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.128.66.0F38.W0 BE /r VFNMSUB231PS xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m128/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from xmm2 and xmm3/m128/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result subtract add to xmm1 and put result in xmm1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 9E /r VFNMSUB132PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result and subtract ymm2 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 AE /r VFNMSUB213PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm1 and ymm2, negate the multiplication result and subtract ymm3/m256/m32bcst and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.256.66.0F38.W0 BE /r VFNMSUB231PS ymm1 {k1}{z}, ymm2, ymm3/m256/m32bcst       B       V/V                      AVX512VL AVX512F     Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from ymm2 and ymm3/m256/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result subtract add to ymm1 and put result in ymm1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 9E /r VFNMSUB132PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm1 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result and subtract zmm2 and put result in zmm1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 AE /r VFNMSUB213PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm1 and zmm2, negate the multiplication result and subtract zmm3/m512/m32bcst and put result in zmm1.
  EVEX.512.66.0F38.W0 BE /r VFNMSUB231PS zmm1 {k1}{z}, zmm2, zmm3/m512/m32bcst{er}   B       V/V                      AVX512F              Multiply packed single-precision floating-point values from zmm2 and zmm3/m512/m32bcst, negate the multiplication result subtract add to zmm1 and put result in zmm1.

Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type   Operand 1          Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       NA           ModRM:reg (r, w)   VEX.vvvv (r)    ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  B       Full         ModRM:reg (r, w)   EVEX.vvvv (r)   ModRM:r/m (r)   NA
  ------- ------------ ------------------ --------------- --------------- -----------

Description ¶

VFNMSUB132PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the first source operand to
the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values
in the third source operand. From negated infinite precision
intermediate results, subtracts the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values in the second source operand,
performs rounding and stores the resulting four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values to the destination operand (first
source operand).

VFNMSUB213PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the second source operand to
the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values
in the first source operand. From negated infinite precision
intermediate results, subtracts the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values in the third source operand,
performs rounding and stores the resulting four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values to the destination operand (first
source operand).

VFNMSUB231PS: Multiplies the four, eight or sixteen packed
single-precision floating-point values from the second source to the
four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision floating-point values in
the third source operand. From negated infinite precision intermediate
results, subtracts the four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values in the first source operand, performs rounding and
stores the resulting four, eight or sixteen packed single-precision
floating-point values to the destination operand (first source operand).

EVEX encoded versions: The destination operand (also first source
operand) and the second source operand are ZMM/YMM/XMM register. The
third source operand is a ZMM/YMM/XMM register, a 512/256/128-bit memory
location or a 512/256/128-bit vector broadcasted from a 32-bit memory
location. The destination operand is conditionally updated with write
mask k1.

VEX.256 encoded version: The destination operand (also first source
operand) is a YMM register and encoded in reg_field. The second source
operand is a YMM register and encoded in VEX.vvvv. The third source
operand is a YMM register or a 256-bit memory location and encoded in
rm_field.

VEX.128 encoded version: The destination operand (also first source
operand) is a XMM register and encoded in reg_field. The second source
operand is a XMM register and encoded in VEX.vvvv. The third source
operand is a XMM register or a 128-bit memory location and encoded in
rm_field. The upper 128 bits of the YMM destination register are zeroed.

Operation ¶

    In the operations below, “*” and “-” symbols represent multiplication and subtraction with infinite precision inputs and outputs (no
    rounding).

VFNMSUB132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (VEX encoded version) ¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←2
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 4
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR( - (DEST[n+31:n]*SRC3[n+31:n]) - SRC2[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFNMSUB213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (VEX encoded version) ¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←2
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 4
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR( - (SRC2[n+31:n]*DEST[n+31:n]) - SRC3[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFNMSUB231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (VEX encoded version) ¶

    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        MAXNUM ←2
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        MAXNUM ← 4
    FI
    For i = 0 to MAXNUM-1 {
        n ← 32*i;
        DEST[n+31:n]←RoundFPControl_MXCSR( - (SRC2[n+31:n]*SRC3[n+31:n]) - DEST[n+31:n])
    }
    IF (VEX.128) THEN
        DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0
    ELSEIF (VEX.256)
        DEST[MAXVL-1:256] ← 0
    FI

VFNMSUB132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl(-(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i]) - SRC2[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFNMSUB132PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[31:0]) - SRC2[i+31:i])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(DEST[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i]) - SRC2[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFNMSUB213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i]) - SRC3[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFNMSUB213PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i]) - SRC3[31:0])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*DEST[i+31:i]) - SRC3[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFNMSUB231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a register) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    IF (VL = 512) AND (EVEX.b = 1)
        THEN
            SET_RM(EVEX.RC);
        ELSE
            SET_RM(MXCSR.RM);
    FI;
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN DEST[i+31:i]←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i]) - DEST[i+31:i])
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

VFNMSUB231PS DEST, SRC2, SRC3 (EVEX encoded version, when src3 operand is a memory source) ¶

    (KL, VL) = (4, 128), (8, 256), (16, 512)
    FOR j←0 TO KL-1
        i←j * 32
        IF k1[j] OR *no writemask*
            THEN
                IF (EVEX.b = 1)
                    THEN
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[31:0]) - DEST[i+31:i])
                    ELSE
                        DEST[i+31:i] ←
                RoundFPControl_MXCSR(-(SRC2[i+31:i]*SRC3[i+31:i]) - DEST[i+31:i])
                FI;
            ELSE
                IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                    THEN *DEST[i+31:i] remains unchanged*
                    ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                        DEST[i+31:i] ← 0
                FI
        FI;
    ENDFOR
    DEST[MAXVL-1:VL] ← 0

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent ¶

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_fnmsub_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_fnmsub_round_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask_fnmsub_ps(__m512 a, __mmask16 k, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_maskz_fnmsub_ps(__mmask16 k, __m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask3_fnmsub_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, __mmask16 k);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask_fnmsub_round_ps(__m512 a, __mmask16 k, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_maskz_fnmsub_round_ps(__mmask16 k, __m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, int r);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m512 _mm512_mask3_fnmsub_round_ps(__m512 a, __m512 b, __m512 c, __mmask16 k, int r);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m256 _mm256_mask_fnmsub_ps(__m256 a, __mmask8 k, __m256 b, __m256 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m256 _mm256_maskz_fnmsub_ps(__mmask8 k, __m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m256 _mm256_mask3_fnmsub_ps(__m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c, __mmask8 k);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m128 _mm_mask_fnmsub_ps(__m128 a, __mmask8 k, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m128 _mm_maskz_fnmsub_ps(__mmask8 k, __m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m128 _mm_mask3_fnmsub_ps(__m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c, __mmask8 k);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m128 _mm_fnmsub_ps (__m128 a, __m128 b, __m128 c);

    VFNMSUBxxxPS __m256 _mm256_fnmsub_ps (__m256 a, __m256 b, __m256 c);

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions ¶

Overflow, Underflow, Invalid, Precision, Denormal

Other Exceptions ¶

VEX-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type 2.

EVEX-encoded instructions, see Exceptions Type E2.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
