-   Index
-   May 2019



VRNDSCALESD — ROUND SCALAR FLOAT64 VALUE TO INCLUDE A GIVEN NUMBER OF FRACTION BITS


  Opcode/Instruction                                                                 Op/En   64/32 bit Mode Support   CPUID Feature Flag   Description
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------- ------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  EVEX.LIG.66.0F3A.W1 0B /r ib VRNDSCALESD xmm1 {k1}{z}, xmm2, xmm3/m64{sae}, imm8   A       V/V                      AVX512F              Rounds scalar double-precision floating-point value in xmm3/m64 to a number of fraction bits specified by the imm8 field. Stores the result in xmm1 register.


Instruction Operand Encoding ¶

  ------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- -----------
  Op/En   Tuple Type      Operand 1       Operand 2       Operand 3       Operand 4
  A       Tuple1 Scalar   ModRM:reg (w)   EVEX.vvvv (r)   ModRM:r/m (r)   Imm8
  ------- --------------- --------------- --------------- --------------- -----------

Description ¶

Rounds a double-precision floating-point value in the low quadword (see
Figure 5-29) element of the second source operand (the third operand) by
the rounding mode specified in the immediate operand and places the
result in the corresponding element of the destination operand (the
first operand) according to the writemask. The quadword element at bits
127:64 of the destination is copied from the first source operand (the
second operand).

The destination and first source operands are XMM registers, the 2nd
source operand can be an XMM register or memory location. Bits
MAXVL-1:128 of the destination register are cleared.

The rounding process rounds the input to an integral value, plus number
bits of fraction that are specified by imm8[7:4] (to be included in the
result) and returns the result as a double-precision floating-point
value.

It should be noticed that no overflow is induced while executing this
instruction (although the source is scaled by the imm8[7:4] value).

The immediate operand also specifies control fields for the rounding
operation, three bit fields are defined and shown in the “Immediate
Control Description” figure below. Bit 3 of the immediate byte controls
the processor behavior for a precision exception, bit 2 selects the
source of rounding mode control. Bits 1:0 specify a non-sticky
rounding-mode value (Immediate control table below lists the encoded
values for rounding-mode field).

The Precision Floating-Point Exception is signaled according to the
immediate operand. If any source operand is an SNaN then it will be
converted to a QNaN. If DAZ is set to ‘1 then denormals will be
converted to zero before rounding.

The sign of the result of this instruction is preserved, including the
sign of zero.

The formula of the operation for VRNDSCALESD is

ROUND(x) = 2^(-M)*Round_to_INT(x*2^(M), round_ctrl),

round_ctrl = imm[3:0];

M=imm[7:4];

The operation of x*2^(M) is computed as if the exponent range is
unlimited (i.e. no overflow ever occurs).

VRNDSCALESD is a more general form of the VEX-encoded VROUNDSD
instruction. In VROUNDSD, the formula of the operation is

ROUND(x) = Round_to_INT(x, round_ctrl),

round_ctrl = imm[3:0];

EVEX encoded version: The source operand is a XMM register or a 64-bit
memory location. The destination operand is a XMM register.

Handling of special case of input values are listed in Table 5-25.

Operation ¶

    RoundToIntegerDP(SRC[63:0], imm8[7:0]) {
        if (imm8[2] = 1)
            rounding_direction←MXCSR:RC
                            ; get round control from MXCSR
        else
            rounding_direction←imm8[1:0]
        M←imm8[7:4] ; get the scaling factor
        case (rounding_direction)
        00: TMP[63:0]←round_to_nearest_even_integer(2M*SRC[63:0])
        01: TMP[63:0]←round_to_equal_or_smaller_integer(2M*SRC[63:0])
        10: TMP[63:0]←round_to_equal_or_larger_integer(2M*SRC[63:0])
        11: TMP[63:0]←round_to_nearest_smallest_magnitude_integer(2M*SRC[63:0])
        ESAC
        Dest[63:0]←2-M* TMP[63:0]
                        ; scale down back to 2-M
        if (imm8[3] = 0) Then ; check SPE
            if (SRC[63:0] != Dest[63:0]) Then
                            ; check precision lost
                set_precision()
                        ; set #PE
            FI;
        FI;
        return(Dest[63:0])
    }
    VRNDSCALESD (EVEX encoded version)
    IF k1[0] or *no writemask*
        THEN DEST[63:0]←RoundToIntegerDP(SRC2[63:0], Zero_upper_imm[7:0])
        ELSE
            IF *merging-masking* ; merging-masking
                THEN *DEST[63:0] remains unchanged*
                ELSE ; zeroing-masking
                    THEN DEST[63:0]←0
            FI;
    FI;
    DEST[127:64] ← SRC1[127:64]
    DEST[MAXVL-1:128] ← 0

Intel C/C++ Compiler Intrinsic Equivalent ¶

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_roundscale_sd ( __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm);

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_roundscale_round_sd ( __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm, int sae);

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_mask_roundscale_sd (__m128d s, __mmask8 k, __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm);

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_mask_roundscale_round_sd (__m128d s, __mmask8 k, __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm, int sae);

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_maskz_roundscale_sd ( __mmask8 k, __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm);

    VRNDSCALESD __m128d _mm_maskz_roundscale_round_sd ( __mmask8 k, __m128d a, __m128d b, int imm, int sae);

SIMD Floating-Point Exceptions ¶

Invalid, Precision

If SPE is enabled, precision exception is not reported (regardless of
MXCSR exception mask).

Other Exceptions ¶

See Exceptions Type E3.

This UNOFFICIAL, mechanically-separated, non-verified reference is
provided for convenience, but it may be incomplete or b_(r)oke_(n) in
various obvious or non-obvious ways. Refer to Intel® 64 and IA-32
Architectures Software Developer’s Manual for anything serious.
